Berger-H-J.  Zaret-B-L.

Noninvasive radionuclide assessment of right ventricular performance
in man.

HEART-VENTRICLE: ri.  RADIONUCLIDE-IMAGING: mt.

ADULT.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp, ri.  DIAGNOSIS-DIFFERENTIAL.
HEART-VENTRICLE: pp.  HUMAN.  LUNG-DISEASES-OBSTRUCTIVE: pp, ri.
MYOCARDIAL-INFARCTION: pp, ri.  RESPIRATION.  STROKE-VOLUME.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

This chapter focuses on the application of radionuclide
angiocardiography to assessment of right ventricular ejection
fraction and the relationship between right and left heart
performance demonstrated by this technique.  Prior to discussion of
the clinical applications, the functional geometry of the two
ventricles will be reviewed.  In addition, the first-pass radiotracer
techniques will be compared to other radionuclide imaging approaches
of the right heart.  First-pass radionuclide angiocardiographic
techniques are now suitable for clinical application.  They have been
validated and standardized and can be relied upon for accurate,
reproducible noninvasive assessment of right and left ventricular
performance.  They already have been applied to the study of patients
with cardiopulmonary disease; future directions will include earlier
evaluation of myocardial infarction, application to children and
adults with a variety of congenital cardiac abnormalities (primarily
those affecting the right heart), and assessment of the effects of
physiologic stress upon right ventricular function.  With this
background valuable clinical and investigative insights should become
available during the coming years.

