Hahnel-R.  Hosli-P.

Alkaline phosphatase induction in cystic fibrosis fibroblasts
[letter].

ALKALINE-PHOSPHATASE: du.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.

ALKALINE-PHOSPHATASE: me.  FIBROBLASTS: en.  HUMAN.

Lysosomal acid hydrolases and alkaline phosphatase cooperate in the
intracellular digestion of natural polymers.  A stimulus for the
induction of these enzymes is the retention of any kind of polymer
inside the cell.  This stimulus is long-lasting and strong if
polymers are intracellularly retained because of a lack of digestive
enzymes.  In previous papers it has been demonstrated that the
alkaline phosphatase (AIP) induction with Tamm Horsfall glycoprotein
discriminates between fibroblasts of CF homozygotes on the one hand
and normals and CF carriers on the other hand, and a hypothesis has
been proposed to explain these observations.  As predicted, more
efficient inducing mixtures have since been developed; these have
been used in the present study.  The first writer familiarized
himself with ultramicrotechniques and then carried out double blind
studies on 20 fibroblast cultures from French patients.  These
findings demonstrate the reproducibility of the AIP induction and of
the methods used, and they particularly underline the importance of
employing the present ultramicrotechniques for a successful AIP
induction.  It is likely that amniotic fluid cells behave like skin
fibroblasts in this test; if this proves to be so, then the induction
of alkaline phosphatase should provide a useful technique for the
prenatal diagnosis of cystic fibrosis.

