di-SantAgnese-P-A.  Davis-P-B.

Recent research in cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS.  RESEARCH.

ANIMAL.  AUTONOMIC-NERVOUS-SYSTEM.  BONE-MARROW.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: et, fg, pp.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.  INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.
MICE.  ANTHROPOIDEA.  PREGNANCY.  RABBITS.  TISSUE-CULTURE.

This review emphasizes some of the positive accomplishments of cystic
fibrosis research, some of the puzzles and some of the recent
developments that have promise.  One of the major unresolved
questions is the maintenance of this lethal gene at such a high
frequency, perhaps because of a heterozygote advantage in the past,
no longer operative at present.  Nothing is known of the chromosomal
localization of the trait; except that chromosomes are
morphologically normal, that it is autosomal, not sex linked and that
there is no correlation with blood groups or major HLA loci.  One of
the important achievements of the past many years is that we
understand relatively well the pathogenesis of most clinical
manifestations of CF.  The as yet unknown inherited basic defect or
metabolic error of CF gives rise to two main anomalies: the
electrolyte defect in exocrine sweat glands and the 'mucous
secretion' abnormality.  While the results of tissue culture studies
often have been conflicting and disparate, it does seem to be the
consensus that the fibroblasts are affected by the basic metabolic
error in some manner, and that they respond abnormally under
different experimental circumstances.  Virtually all investigators
have found some anomalies in biologic fluids of CF, although using
different approaches and methods.  An abnormality in the function of
the autonomic nervous system, which is so closely associated with the
exocrine glands, has always been an attractive explanation for the
generalized exocrinopathy of CF.  The search for a genetic animal
model for CF has led to interesting findings.

