Oppenheimer-E-H.  Rosenstein-B-J.

Differential pathology of nasal polyps in cystic fibrosis and atopy.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  HYPERSENSITIVITY-IMMEDIATE: co.
NASAL-POLYPS: pa.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  BASEMENT-MEMBRANE: pa.  CHILD.
CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  EXOCRINE-GLANDS: pa.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.  MALE.
METAPLASIA.  MUCOUS-MEMBRANE: pa.  MUCUS.  NASAL-POLYPS: co.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

Nineteen nasal polyps from 13 patients were examined histologically.
Nine polyps from seven cystic fibrosis (CF) patients could be
positively identified by a triad of observations: delicate, barely
visible basement membrane of surface epithelium without submucosal
hyalinization, lack of extensive infiltration of eosinophils (Giemsa
stains), and a preponderance of acid mucin in glands and cysts of the
polyp and in its surface mucous blanket (Alcian Blue-periodic acid-
Schiff stains). Two polyps from two patients with CF and atopy showed
the characteristic findings of CF without modification. Eight polyps
from four atopic patients without CF were identified by the reverse
triad of changes: extensive thickening of the epithelial basement
membrane and its extension into the submucosa as an irregular hyaline
membrane, high stromal eosinophil count, and mainly neutral mucin in
mucous glands, cysts, and mucous blanket. Hyperplastic mucous glands,
mucous cysts of variable sizes, focal metaplasia of surface
epithelium, and acid mucin in goblet cells were considered
nonspecific lesions.

