Hein-J.  David-A.  Grimm-J.  Gottschalk-B.

Protein, IgA, secretory IgA, IgG and electrolytes as parameters of
parotid gland function in children with cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.  ELECTROLYTES: me.  IGA: an.  IGA-SECRETORY: an.
IGG: an.  PAROTID-GLAND: pp.  PROTEINS: an.  SALIVA: an.

CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im, me.  HUMAN.

To study the parotid gland function in children with cystic fibrosis
we investigated parotid saliva specimens of 18 such patients.  We
compared the results with a control group of 12 healthy children of
the same age and sex.  Furthermore, children with bronchial asthma
and chronic bronchitis were examined.  The flow rate of the parotid
and the protein output without stimulation were nearly the same for
the four groups.  In patients with CF the protein output after
stimulation was significantly lower.  An increased level of sodium
was observed in the stimulated secretion and the unstimulated saliva
as well.  In CF children we found a significant higher output of
sodium in both stimulated parotid saliva and unstimulated parotid
saliva.  The IgG output of the gland after stimulation was found to
be slightly reduced in patients with CF in comparison to healthy
children.  The output of the gland for IgA after stimulation was
observed to be strongly reduced for the group with CF and for the
group with bronchial asthma.  The decreased output of the gland for
secretory IgA after stimulation was demonstrated again in CF and in
bronchial asthma in comparison with healthy persons.  The increased
sodium concentration in parotid saliva may be caused in a similar way
as the electrolyte abnormality of sweat in CF patients, namely by a
decreased net reabsorption of sodium.  Due to the result of an
increased electrolyte output and decreased immunoglobulin output of
parotid gland we can suppose that the molecular magnitude plays its
role in this disturbance.

