Brock-D-J.  Hayward-C.

Methylumbelliferyl-guanidinobenzoate reactive proteases and prenatal
diagnosis of cystic fibrosis [letter].

AMNIOTIC-FLUID: en.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  PEPTIDE-HYDROLASES: an.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.  HYMECROMONE.  PREGNANCY.

For several reasons the supernatant fraction of amniotic fluid is not
often used in the prenatal detection of inborn errors of metabolism.
In early pregnancy the bulk of the protein in amniotic fluid is
derived from the maternal circulation, and this can obscure the more
critical contribution from the fetus needed for prenatal diagnosis.
10 - 30% of amniotic fluids are significantly contaminated with
maternal blood, and if the enzyme in question is present in this
blood (as 4-methylumbelliferyl guanidinobenzoate [MUGB] protease is),
this can further distort diagnostic conclusions.  For this reason we
have examined the variation of MUGB protease in a heterogenous
collection of amniotic fluids.  No significant differences in titre
between individual weeks in the second trimester were observed.  A
further 104 second-trimester amniotic fluids from pregnancies with
abnormal outcome were also investigated.  The means of the four
groups were not significantly different from that of the normals and
the ranges were very similar.  We have not yet had the opportunity to
examine an amniotic fluid from a known case of cystic fibrosis.
Diagnosis of cystic fibrosis could probably be further refined by
coupling amniotic-fluid protease titration and isoelectric focusing
on polyacrylamide gel.

