Pryjma-J.  Rudnik-J.  Zebrak-J.  Herman-T.  Gawe-J.

The local immune status in cystic fibrosis.

BRONCHI: im.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im.

ANTIBODIES: an.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  HUMAN.  IMMUNITY-CELLULAR.
IMMUNOGLOBULINS: an.  INFANT.  LUNG-DISEASES: im.  SPUTUM: im.

We focused our study on concentration of immunoglobulins, lysozyme,
lactoferrin, some antiproteolytic fractions and acute phase proteins
in bronchial secretion of children with various pulmonary diseases,
especially with cystic fibrosis.  Secretory IgA is decreased in all
studied groups of patients having chronic or recurrent infections of
the respiratory tract (when compared to the group of healthy
children).  Groups which were characterized by the infection of the
lower part of the respiratory tract had increased lysozyme level.
The results obtained in the group of CF children are similar to those
obtained in groups with bronchiectasis and chronic bronchitis, which
suggests that the observed differences are characteristic for chronic
infection rather than for CF.  Although in CF as well as in
bronchiectasis massive bacterial infection results in increased
concentration of immunoglobulins, antiproteolytic fractions and acute
phase proteins, the results seen in both groups are somewhat
different.  These differences may indicate some difference in the
reactivity to infection of the respiratory tract in CF in comparison
to patients with bronchiectasis.  It seems conceivable that among
children with CF who have very low S-IgA, chronic respiratory tract
infections occur earlier and IgG response to permanent exposition to
variety of antigens is less vigorous.  The presented results raise
also a possibility that the bacterial infection in CF does not
stimulate defence mechanisms to the same extent as in bronchiectasis.

