Wood-R-E.

Cystic fibrosis: diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: th.

AEROSOLS.  ANTIBIOTICS: tu.  COUGH: et.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co, di, fg, mo, pp, px.  DIET.  HUMAN.
INFANT-NEWBORN.  INFANT-NEWBORN-DISEASES: di.  LUNG-DISEASES: et.
METHODS.  PANCREAS: pp.  PHYSICAL-THERAPY.  PROGNOSIS.  REVIEW.
INFERTILITY: et.  SWEAT: an.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.  UNITED-STATES.

This review is intended to present a brief summary of the important
areas and concepts of cystic fibrosis relevant to clinical practice,
indicating those that remain controversial and offering opinions
based on both relevant literature and the clinical experience of the
Cleveland Cystic Fibrosis Center.  The sweat test, tests of
pancreatic function, tests of pulmonary function, genetics and family
history in diagnosis, infertility as a diagnostic factor, the role of
circulating factors in diagnosis, heterozygote detection and prenatal
diagnosis, miscellaneous factors leading to diagnosis, neonatal
screening, and general observations on the diagnosis of CF are
examined.  A philosophy of treatment, physical measures,
antimicrobial therapy, aerosol therapy, the role of hospitalization
in a therapeutic program, other drug therapy, the treatment of cor
pulmonale, respiratory failure, and specific pulmonary complications
are discussed.  Enzyme replacement and obstructive phenomena, glucose
intolerance, the treatment of the sweat defect, psychosocial therapy,
and prognosis are also considered.

