Roscher-A.  Wiesmann-U-N.  Hadorn-B.

Relevance of second messengers in cystic fibrosis.

ADENOSINE-CYCLIC-MONOPHOSPHATE: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.
ISOPROTERENOL: pd.  RECEPTORS-ADRENERGIC.  RECEPTORS-ADRENERGIC-BETA.

ADRENERGIC-BETA-RECEPTOR-BLOCKADERS: pd.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.
FIBROBLASTS: me.  HUMAN.  NEUROREGULATORS: ph.  PROSTAGLANDINS-E: ph.

Water, electrolyte and macromolecular secretion, which is affected in
cystic fibrosis, is regulated by neurotransmitters of the autonomic
nervous system stimulating the cells by binding to alpha-adrenergic,
beta-adrenergic and cholinergic receptors.  Therefore, a genetic
disturbance in cyclic 3'5'-adenosine monophosphate (c-AMP) response
could eventually explain some of the manifold expressions of labile
biochemical changes observed in CF, specially in tissue culture.  We
further characterized beta-receptors in cultured fibroblasts of CF
patients and normal controls and investigated isoproterenol and
prostaglandin E1-mediated c-AMP response using defined culture
conditions.  No significant difference was found between the two
phenotypes on basal c-AMP values.  With the exception of one cell
line, CF strains had 25 to 180% increased c-AMP content.  This
difference is highly significant (p < 0.0025).  This statistically
significant difference in response can neither be attributed to
differences in dose- or time-response curves nor to differential
c-AMP escape into culture medium.  Since CF cells synthesize more
c-AMP than controls only in response to isoproterenol but not to
prostaglandin E1, the alteration which might be responsible for the
observed phenomenon is probably located proximal of the adenylate
cyclase at the cells border between intra- and extracellular space.

