Hyperuricemia in cystic fibrosis [letter].

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  URIC-ACID: bl.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dt.  HUMAN.  PANCREATIC-EXTRACTS: ae, tu.

Davidson et al report hyperuricemia in cystic fibrosis patients
ingesting large quantities of pancreatic extracts.  This article and
others emphasize the considerable purine content of these
preparations as causal to the increased serum and urine uric acid
levels in patients who consume them.  This may find clinical
application, since uric acid production from RNA might be decreased
by an inhibitor of ribonuclease.  While itself a purine chain,
polyadenylic acid added to pancreatic extracts may prevent the
hydrolysis of mixed-base ribonucleic acid to uric acid precursors,
while allowing the beneficial effects of the other pancreatic enzymes
to prevail. - A number of weaknesses to the proposal bears stressing
before we begin giving polyadenylic acid to our patients.  No one
knows whether nucleic acids are malabsorbed in cystic fibrosis.  If
polyadenylic acid produces only 70% inhibition of pancreatic
ribonucleases at a one-to-one ratio of substrate and inhibitor, a
relatively enormous amount of polyadenylic acid would have to be fed
with the pancreatic extracts.  If there were an intestinal enzyme
capable of cleaving polyadenylic acid, the treatment would add to,
not subtract from, the purine load.  Finally, Stapleton et al's
results suggest that more than 75% of the purine load in the
pancreatic extracts would probably be absorbed anyway.

