Thomassen-M-J.  Demko-C-A.  Boxerbaum-B.  Stern-R-C.  Kuchenbrod-P-J.

Multiple of isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa with differing
antimicrobial susceptibility patterns from patients with cystic
fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dt.  PSEUDOMONAS-AERUGINOSA: ip.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CARBENICILLIN: tu.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
GENTAMICINS: tu.  HUMAN.  INFANT.  KANAMYCIN: tu.
MICROBIAL-SENSITIVITY-TESTS.  TETRACYCLINE: tu.  TICARCILLIN: tu.
TIME-FACTORS.  TOBRAMYCIN: tu.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

Clinical isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa from patients with cystic
fibrosis were studied in an effort to determine the unique
characteristics of the infecting strains and to elucidate the pattern
of colonization. Of 413 patients studied, 81% were chronically
infected with P. aeruginosa. Patients from whom P. aeruginosa was
never or only occasionally isolated were in better clinical condition
than the chronically infected patients. Isolates were classified into
six morphologic varieties: classic, rough, mucoid, gelatinous, dwarf,
and enterobacter. Most patients had two or more of these varieties.
Such multiple varieties from the same individual were of the same
serotype but often differed in antibiotic susceptibility as
determined by both the disk and the minimal inhibitory concentration
methods. These differences were apparent when mucoid strains were
compared with nonmucoid strains and when nonmucoid strains were
compared with one another. Studies of antibiotic susceptibility
should be performed on each morphologically different type of P.
aeruginosa obtained from patients with cystic fibrosis.

