Ghadially-F-N.

Invited review.  The technique and scope of electron-probe X-ray
analysis in pathology.

ELECTRON-PROBE-MICROANALYSIS: mt.  PATHOLOGY: is.

ACID-PHOSPHATASE: an.  ANTIGENS: me.  BISMUTH: an.  CALCIUM: an.
CELL-NUCLEUS: an.  COPPER: an.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.
ELECTRON-PROBE-MICROANALYSIS: is.  FOREIGN-BODIES: pa.  GOLD: an.
HEMOSIDERIN: an.  HEPATOLENTICULAR-DEGENERATION: pa.  HUMAN.
LUNG: an.  METALS: an.  MINERALS: an.  MITOCHONDRIA: an.  NAILS: an.
PROSTHESIS.  REVIEW.  STAINS-AND-STAINING.

The purpose of this article is to review briefly both the techniques
and applications of electron-probe x-ray analysis, but only studies
of interest to pathologists will be dealt with.  The principles of
x-ray fluorescence spectrometry, the capabilities and limitations of
energy dispersive x-ray analysis, equipment, specimen preparation,
and the method of electron-probe x-ray analysis are discussed.
Applications of electron-probe x-ray analysis include mineral
deposits in lungs, intranuclear bismuth inclusions, gold deposits in
tissues, the nature of haemosiderin, copper in Wilson's disease,
calcium in mitochondria, surgical implants, foreign bodies in eyes
and wounds, the specificity of v. Kossa method for calcium,
cytochemical localization of acid phosphatase, chromaffin and
argentaffin reactions, the transfer of antigenic material from
macrophages to lymphocytes, and the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis by
electron-probe x-ray analysis of nails.

