Lieberman-J.  Costea-N-V.  Jakulis-V-J.  Kaneshiro-W.

Detection of a lectin in the blood of cystic fibrosis homozygotes
and heterozygotes.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  LECTINS: an.

ANIMAL.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  DEXTRANS: pd.  DOGS.  GUINEA-PIGS.
HAMSTERS.  HEMAGGLUTINATION-INHIBITION-TESTS: mt.
HEMAGGLUTINATION-TESTS: mt.  HEMAGGLUTINATION: de.  HETEROZYGOTE.
HOMOZYGOTE.  HUMAN.  IGM: im.  LYMPHOCYTES: de, en.  MICE.  PEDIGREE.
PHYTOHEMAGGLUTININS: pd.  RABBITS.  RATS.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-NON-P-H-S.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

We theorize that cystic fibrosis may be a disease in which a plasma
factor with lectin-like activity stimulates mucus secretion, causes
precipitation of mucus glycoproteins, and incidentally affects
lymphocytes in culture.  To confirm our theory, we planned to search
for additional lectin-like activities in CF serum.  Our experiments
suggest that the lectin-like substance in CF blood requires IgM for
its red-blood-cell-agglutination activity.  Thus, no difference in
agglutination titer is observed between CF homozygotes and
heterozygotes, because IgM is the limiting factor, and IgM
concentrations do not differ appreciably in such subjects.  We
suspect that CF homozygotes have a larger pool of free lectin in
their blood than do heterozygotes, so that quantitation of this free
lectin pool may distinguish between the two phenotypes.  Excess free
lectin may account for the signs and symptoms of CF, whereas lesser
amounts may theoretically be advantageous to the heterozygote.

