Feigal-R-J.  Shapiro-B-L.

Mitochondrial calcium uptake and oxygen consumption in cystic
fibrosis.

CALCIUM: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  MITOCHONDRIA: me.
OXYGEN-CONSUMPTION.

BIOLOGICAL-TRANSPORT-ACTIVE.  CELLS-CULTURED.  ELECTRON-TRANSPORT.
HUMAN.  KINETICS.  SKIN: ul.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

Reports of exocrine gland secretory anomalies in cystic fibrosis and
increased calcium ion concentrations in some CF secretions and the
importance of cellular Ca to stimulus-secretion coupling led us to
study cellular Ca in CF.  We report data on Ca uptake studies with
mitochondrial and microsomal fractions isolated from skin fibroblasts
of subjects with CF and age-, sex- and passage number-matched
controls in which mitochondria from CF cells accumulated more Ca than
those from control cells.  We also describe subsequent studies which
show increased mitochondrial electron transport activity, measured as
oxygen uptake by whole cells, in cells from subjects with CF and
obligate heterozygotes.  One can hypothesise a mechanism to link the
altered mitochondrial Ca in CF fibroblasts and the major signs
associated with the disease.  Data suggest that the electron
transport system in CF and obligate heterozygote fibroblasts is more
active than that in respective controls, in the conditions of this
study.  The apparent central role of Ca in several pathogenetic
pathways in CF and the data reported here in which both mitochondrial
Ca capacity and oxygen consumption are increased in CF suggest that
this organelle is a suitable focus for CF investigations.

