Pennington-J-E.  Reynolds-H-Y.  Wood-R-E.  Robinson-R-A.  Levine-A-S.

Use of a Pseudomonas Aeruginosa vaccine in pateints with acute
leukemia and cystic fibrosis.

BACTERIAL-VACCINES.  LEUKEMIA: im.  PSEUDOMONAS-AERUGINOSA: im.
PSEUDOMONAS-INFECTIONS: pc.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  BACTERIAL-VACCINES: ad, ae.  CHILD.
CLINICAL-TRIALS.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im.  DRUG-ADMINISTRATION-SCHEDULE.
DRUG-EVALUATION.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.  INJECTIONS-INTRAMUSCULAR.  MALE.
MIDDLE-AGE.

A heptavalent lipopolysaccharide Pseudomonas vaccine was evaluated in
22 patients with acute leukemia and 12 patients with cystic fibrosis
during an 18 month interval at the Clinical Center of the National
Institutes of Health. Of the 34 patients, 32 had an excellent serum
hemagglutinating (HA) antibody response to immunization. In
comparison to the patients with cystic fibrosis, the patients with
leukemia had a smaller HA antibody response, which lasted a shorter
period of time, and also}i experienced greater toxicity from the
vaccine. The mixing of adrenal corticosteroids with vaccine greatly
decreased side reactions among the patients with leukemia without
significantly inhibiting antibody production. Previous antineoplastic
chemotherapy had little influence on antibody response in patients
with leukemia, with the exception of methortrexate. Vaccinated
patients with leukemia had 1 Pseudomonas infection of 14 bacterial or
fungal infections, whereas 2 pseudomonas infections of 5 bacterial or
fungal infections occurred in a control group of 20 patients with
acute leukemia. Of the 12 patients with cystic fibrosis, 4 had a
Pseudomonas infection after vaccination.

