Barbero-G-J.  Shwachman-H.  Grand-R.  Woodruff-C.

Gastrointestinal and nutritional manifestations of cystic fibrosis.
pp.  83-111.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  GASTROINTESTINAL-DISEASES: et.
NUTRITION-DISORDERS: et.

AMINO-ACIDS: me.  BODY-COMPOSITION.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dh.
DIABETES-MELLITUS: et.  DIETARY-FATS: me.  GALLBLADDER: pa.
GASTROINTESTINAL-MOTILITY.  GROWTH.  HUMAN.  INTESTINAL-ABSORPTION.
INTESTINAL-OBSTRUCTION: et.  INTUSSUSCEPTION: et.
LACTOSE-INTOLERANCE: et.  LIVER-CIRRHOSIS: et.  MONOGRAPH.
NITROGEN:  me.  PANCREATIC-DISEASES: et.  REVIEW.
TRIGLYCERIDES: me.  VITAMINS:  me.

The purpose of this paper is to summarize the present state of our
knowledge of the gastrointestinal manifestations and absorption and
metabolism of nutrients in patients with cystic fibrosis.  The
gastrointestinal manifestations include pancreatic exocrine
insufficiency, pancreatic calcification and stones, diabetes, liver
and gall bladder abnormalities, intestinal obstruction, and
complications of malabsorption.  Nutritional aspects of cystic
fibrosis include growth retardation and body composition, fat and
nitrogen absorption, amino acid absorption, medium-chain triglyceride
absorption, and deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins.  The critical
questions for projection into the future fall into three categories:
intestinal absorption, gastrointestinal function and experimental
design.

