Shwachman-H.

Gastrointestinal manifestations of cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  INTESTINAL-DISEASES: co.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  APPETITE.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dh, di.  DIABETES-MELLITUS: co.  FEMALE.
GROWTH-DISORDERS: co.  HUMAN.  HYPERTENSION-PORTAL: co.  INFANT.
INFANT-NEWBORN.  INTESTINAL-OBSTRUCTION: co.  INTUSSUSCEPTION: co.
LACTOSE-INTOLERANCE: co.  LIVER-CIRRHOSIS: co.  MALE.  MECONIUM.
PANCREAS: pp.  PANCREATITIS: co.  RECTAL-PROLAPSE: co.  REVIEW.

From a historical view cystic fibrosis (CF) has been considered a
disease of the pancreas which results in maldigestion and loss of
fat, and nitrogen in the stool.  A number of early synonyms included
congenital steatorrhea, pancreatic infantilism, and pancreatic
fibrosis.  The concern of the pediatrician in the late 1930's and
early 1940's was to distinguish nonfatal celiac disease from fatal
cystic fibrosis.  In 1954, Shwachman presented clinical and
laboratory features that distinguish these two entities.  Today one
is not justified in making a diagnosis of celiac disease without a
confirmatory small intestinal biopsy coupled with a normal sweat
test.  A number of gastrointestinal complications in cystic fibrosis
are examined: meconium ileus, intestinal obstruction, pancreatic
insufficiency, lactase deficiency, intestinal impaction,
intussusception, rectal prolapse, growth retardation, excessive
appetite, cirrhosis and portal hypertension, gallbladder problems,
and diabetes.  The article closes by recording the indications for
the sweat test.

