Rawal-B-D.  McKay-G.  Blackhall-M-I.

Inhibition of Pseudomonas aeruginosa by ascorbic acid acting singly
and in combination with antimicrobials: in-vitro and in-vivo studies.

ANTIBIOTICS: pd.  ASCORBIC-ACID: pd.  PSEUDOMONAS-AERUGINOSA: de.

ADOLESCENCE.  ANIMAL.  ASCORBIC-ACID: tu.  CHILD.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS:  co.  DRUG-COMBINATIONS.  DRUG-SYNERGISM.
DRUG-THERAPY-COMBINATION.  ERYTHROMYCIN: tu.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.  MICE.
MICROBIAL-SENSITIVITY-TESTS.  PSEUDOMONAS-INFECTIONS: co, dt.
SULFAMETHOXAZOLE: tu.  TRIMETHOPRIM: tu.

Ascorbic acid, acting on its own, is found to exert a bacteriostatic
action in vitro on 16 strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa tested.
This action, attributable to the oxidation of ascorbic acid, is
dependent on individual strains and the inoculum size.  In
combination with sulphamethoxazole, trimethoprim, Septrin,
ampicillin, erythromycin, chloramphenicol or colistin sulphate,
ascorbic acid acts synergistically on Pseudomonas aeruginosa in
vitro.  Experiments in mice with erythromycin-ascorbic acid
combination show that the curvative dose 50 of ascorbic acid acting
alone is 11.22 milligrammes per kilogram body weight.  This was
significantly lowered (P =< 0.001) to 6.91 mg/kg if administered in
combination with erythromycin (10 mg/kg).  In human patients with
cystic fibrosis, by the combined administration of ascorbic acid
sulphamethoxazole and trimethoprim (Bactrim, Roche) the pseudomonas
infection could be controlled, as the viable number of organisms
significantly diminished during the therapy.

