Hardwick-D-F.  Dimmick-J-E.

Metabolic cirrhoses of infancy and early childhood.

LIVER-CIRRHOSIS: pa.  METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: pa.

AMINO-ACID-METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: pa.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pa.
CYSTINOSIS.  FRUCTOSE-INTOLERANCE: me, pa.  GALACTOSEMIA: di, pa.
GENETICS-MEDICAL.  GLYCOGENOSIS-4: pa.
HEPATOLENTICULAR-DEGENERATION: pa.  HUMAN.  IATROGENIC-DISEASE.
INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.  KIDNEY-POLYCYSTIC: di.
LIPID-METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: pa.  LIVER-CIRRHOSIS: cn.  LIVER: pa.
MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDOSIS: pa.  NIEMANN-PICK-DISEASE: pa.  REVIEW.
TYROSINE: me.

Cirrhosis of the liver in infancy and early childhood is not a common
phenomenon.  However, because of the attendant morbidity and frequent
mortality, it represents a significant diagnostic and therapeutic
problem in this age group.  This review will present briefly the
metabolic cirrhoses of infancy, discuss currently proposed
pathogenetic mechanisms and outline diagnostic techniques that may
aid the pathologist in his approach to the problem of metabolic
cirrhosis of the very young.  Hereditary tyrosinemia, galactosemia,
hereditary fructose intolerance, alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency,
glycogenesis type IV (amylopectinosis), fibrocystic disease of the
pancreas, Niemann-Pick disease, Gaucher's disease,
mucopolysaccharidosis (Hurler-Hunter syndrome), Wolman's disease,
hemochromatosis, Wilson's disease, cystinosis, the cerebrohepatorenal
syndrome of Zellweger, Indian childhood cirrhosis, infantile
polycystic disease of the liver and kidneys, congenital hepatic
fibrosis, iatrogenic metabolic cirrhoses, and idiopathic congenital
cirrhosis are discussed.

