Gracey-M.

The use of medium-chain triglyceride in children with intestinal
malabsorption.

INTESTINAL-ABSORPTION: de.  MALABSORPTION-SYNDROMES: dh.
TRIGLYCERIDES: tu.

ABNORMALITIES: dh.  BILE-DUCTS: ab.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dh.
FECES: an.  HEPATITIS: co.  HUMAN.  INFANT-NEWBORN.
INFANT-NEWBORN-DISEASES: dh.  INTESTINE-SMALL: me.  LIPIDS: an.
LYMPHATIC-DISEASES: dh.  MALABSORPTION-SYNDROMES: et.  REVIEW.
TRIGLYCERIDES: pd, me.

Medium-chain triglycerides (MCT) are fats in which the chain length
is six to twelve carbon atoms.  This is in contrast to the more usual
dietary sources of fats, long-chain triglycerides (LCT), which
contain more than 14 carbon atoms in their atomic chain.  The
differences in chemical structure between LCT and MCT are important
because they are related to major differences in the characteristics
of absorption and metabolism of these two classes of lipids.  These
physiological differences between LCT and MCT have led to the use of
MCT in various disorders where malabsorption of LCT occurs but where
MCT can be absorbed because they bypass several of the steps
necessary for the absorption of long chain fats.  These include
pancreatic disease, chronic liver disease, disorders of the biliary
tract and diseases of the small intestinal epithelium and lymphatic
vessels.  The comments which follow are a brief summary of the
therapeutic place of MCT in children with malabsorption.  This will
be followed by some remarks about the potential value of MCT in
countries like Indonesia where the commonest cause of chronic
diarrhoea and malabsorption in children is malnutrition and chronic
and repeated gastrointestinal infections and infestations and where
MCT has not been used widely.

