Winick-M.

Effects of malnutrition on the maturing central nervous system.

CENTRAL-NERVOUS-SYSTEM: gd.  NUTRITION-DISORDERS: pp.

AGE-FACTORS.  AMINO-ACIDS: me.  ANIMAL.  BEHAVIOR-ANIMAL.
BRAIN: gd, cy.  CENTRAL-NERVOUS-SYSTEM: pp, me, pa.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  ENVIRONMENT.  GLUCOSE: me.  HUMAN.  INFANT.
INFANT-NEWBORN.  LEARNING.  LIPIDS: me.  MENTAL-RETARDATION: et.
MYELIN-SHEATH: me.  NERVE-TISSUE-PROTEINS: me.
NUTRITION-DISORDERS: pa.  RATS.  REVIEW.

During recent years, more and more data have been accumulated
implicating early malnutrition in subsequent small stature and
behavioral abnormalities.  These studies can be divided into two
large categories: one dealing with cellular and biochemical changes
at a tissue level and one dealing with functional changes within the
nervous system as measured by changes in various modes of behavior.
This chapter will attempt to review the studies in both of these
broad categories, which have led to the present concept that
malnutrition during the growing period will permanently retard
growth, resulting in a stunted individual, and markedly retard
psychologic development, resulting in an individual with permanently
altered behaviors.  We shall first consider the normal cellular and
biochemical development of the central nervous system; second, we
shall examine how malnutrition alters these cellular and biochemical
processes; and finally, we shall review the evidence that implicates
early malnutrition with alterations in later behavior and ability to
learn.

