McDougal-W-S.  Izant-R-J-Jr.  Zollinger-R-M-Jr.

Primary peritonitis in infancy and childhood.

PERITONITIS: di.

ABDOMEN: ra.  ABDOMEN-ACUTE: di.  ADRENAL-HYPERPLASIA-CONGENITAL: co.
AGE-FACTORS.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.
DIAGNOSIS-DIFFERENTIAL.  FEMALE.  BACTERIA: ip.  BACTERIA: ip.
HUMAN.  HYALINE-MEMBRANE-DISEASE: co.  HYDRONEPHROSIS: co.  INFANT.
INFANT-NEWBORN.  MALE.  NEPHROTIC-SYNDROME: co.  PERITONITIS: et, mi.
PNEUMONIA: co.  SEX-FACTORS.  TIME-FACTORS.
URINARY-TRACT-INFECTIONS: co.

Primary peritonitis, rarely diagnosed preoperatively, is an uncommon
disease accounting for 2.1% of all pediatric abdominal emergencies.
It is often associated with urinary or hepatic pathology, the former
the source of the infecting organism in the majority of cases, and
presents with characteristic symptoms depending upon whether it
occurs in infancy or childhood. The symptoms and signs which allow
for a positive prospective diagnosis are illustrated by comparing
this disease to those entities with which it is most often confused,
e.g. diffuse peritonitis of other etiologies, and include a short
duration of symptoms, associated urinary tract infection and an
absence of free air on abdominal roentgenograms. In the past, gram
positive organisms were the most common infecting agent; however, in
this series gram negative bacteria accounted for 69% or the
organisms. Antibiotics with a gram negative spectrum and exploratory
laparotomy with appendectomy are the hallmarks of therapy, the latter
replaced by abdominal tap only in the patient who satisfies the
criteria for primary peritonitis and in whom an associated disease
makes the risk of surgery prohibitive.

