Lykkegaard-E.  Jacobsen-L.  Flensborg-E-W.

Serum protein paper electrophoresis in cystic fibrosis correlated
with clinical and radiological findings.

BLOOD-PROTEINS: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  BLOOD-PROTEIN-ELECTROPHORESIS.  CHILD.
CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: ra.  ELECTROPHORESIS-PAPER.
FOLLOW-UP-STUDIES.  HUMAN.  INFANT.

Few studies of serum proteins by means of paper electrophoresis in
patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) have been published.  In these
studies alterations of the serum protein fractions were found, some
of which were significantly correlated with the clinical and
radiological severity of the disease.  In the present study, serum
proteins determined by paper electrophoresis in 95 patients with CF
have been studied and correlated with clinical and radiological
findings.  The serum proteins and electrophoretic patterns if 95
patients with CF were followed for 1 to 6 years in each patient.  For
CF patients as a whole, total serum protein was unchanged, whereas
albumin and albumin/globulin ratio were decreased and all globulin
fractions increased.  Total serum protein was increased in patients
with severe pulmonary disease.  The changes in total serum protein
and in all protein fractions were significantly correlated with
clinical and radiological severity of the lung disease.  All terminal
patients had severe changes.  Patients with complicating liver
cirrhosis had electrophoretic patterns that did not differ from those
of other CF patients.  It is concluded that the main cause for serum
protein alterations in CF is the lung affection, whereas liver
involvement and malabsorption probably are of much less importance.

