Bang-F-B.

Comparative pathology of marine invertebrates and the study of human
disease.

MARINE-BIOLOGY.  MODELS-BIOLOGICAL.

ANIMAL.  ARACHNIDA: mi.  CLAMS: me.  CRABS: im.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.
HUMAN.  MUCUS: se.  OYSTERS: me.  STARFISH: im.

Studies on an infection with gram-negative bacteria in Limulus led to
the discovery of the extreme sensitivity of the amebocytes to a
gram-negative endotoxin.  This led to the development of a method for
measuring very small amounts of endotoxin in biologic fluids and in
human blood.  Yet, had the original observation of Cantacuzene on the
large common edible spider crab been followed, this remarkable
sensitivity of marine arthropod blood to endotoxin would have been
recognized much earlier.  The original work of Metchnikoff on sea
star larvae stimulated him to develop the major theory of
phagocytosis but, until the adult animal of the same genus was
re-examined half a century later, the presence of a powerful
substance which selectively inhibits growth of lymphocytes following
primary immunization remained unknown.  Though mucus secretion is a
fundamental characteristic of most invertebrate phyla and all
vertebrates, little is known about the regulatory mechanism of the
secretory process; studies of the responses of specialized
invertebrate secretory cells to infection have now led to a new means
of studying macromolecular control of mucus secretion in man.  These
three stories emphasize the continuing need to study disease as a
biologic phenomenon.

