McEvoy-F-A.

Letter: Essential fatty acids and cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  FATTY-ACIDS-ESSENTIAL: bl.

ADULT.  CELL-MEMBRANE: me.  CHILD.  ERYTHROCYTES: me.  HUMAN.
OXIDATION-REDUCTION.

I have measured the fatty-acid profile of C.F. erythrocyte membranes
in view of the fact that some variations in membrane activity have
been observed with this system.  The results show that there was a
lowered content of linoleate (18:2) and arachidonate (20:4) in C.F.
erythrocyte membranes, and the total essential-fatty-acid content
was significantly lower than either control group.  There was no
significant difference in the concentrations of the other major
fatty acids (palmitate, stearate, and oleate) and we could not
observe any striking alteration in the concentration of any of the
minor fatty-acid components of the membrane.  It would thus appear
that the overall fatty-acid pattern in C.F. erythrocyte membranes is
altered only by a diminution in those fatty acids which are of
dietary origin.  The fact that there was considerable overlap
between the C.F. and control data makes it rather unlikely that the
fatty-acid profile closely reflects the biochemical lesion of the
disease.  When the essential-fatty-acid levels of the C.F. samples
were compared with the Schwachman clinical scores of the patients,
there was a surprisingly poor correlation (r = 0.49) which was not
statistically significant.  The correlation with the nutritional
part of the clinical score was equally low.  Diminished
essential-fatty-acid content is often observed in many acute
illnesses.  In addition, the possibility exists that C.F. patients
may be particularly susceptible to essential-fatty-acid depletion
due to their pancreatic dysfunction.  Further research on fatty-acid
transport and metabolism in C.F. is clearly needed to establish the
role of essential fatty acids in the disease.

