Yaffe-S-J.

Developmental factors influencing interactions of drugs.

AGING.  DRUGS: me.

BLOOD-PROTEINS: me.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.
FEMALE.  FETUS: me.  GASTROINTESTINAL-SYSTEM: me.  HUMAN.
HYPERBILIRUBINEMIA: me.  INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.
INFANT-NEWBORN-DISEASES: me.  INTESTINAL-ABSORPTION.  PREGNANCY.
PROTEIN-BINDING.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

The author has attempted to summarize the current state of knowledge
regarding dispositional processes in infants and children of various
ages.  The traditional processes of absorption, distribution,
metabolism, and excretion are described not only in newborn infants
but also in infants and children of other age groups.  Knowledge of
the effects of age and the effects of diseases, which are often
unique to each stage of postnatal development, upon drug action and
disposition is a vital and necessary prerequisite to a discussion of
interactions of drugs of abuse in the pediatric population.  It is
essential that the developmental status of the host be taken into
consideration when examining interactions of drugs in infants and
children.  The mechanisms of interactions are similar to those seen
in the adult patient.  The developmental status of the pediatric
patient also plays a significant role in the manifestations of
disease seen in sick infants and children.  These are often profound
and consequently may play a major role in modifying drug action and
interaction.

