Schiffer-M.  Lynch-R.

Inappropriate secretion of ADH as a cause of hyponatremia in cystic
fibrosis [letter].

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  HYPONATREMIA: et.  VASOPRESSINS: se.

BLOOD-VOLUME.  BODY-WEIGHT.  HUMAN.  HYPONATREMIA: pp.

After reading "The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone
[ADH] secretion [SIADH] as a cause of hyponatremia in cystic fibrosis
[CF]," we are puzzled by certain unusual phenomena in the two cases
presented.  We agree that it would be important to recognize the
occurrence of ADH mediated hyponatremia in CF.  We would, though,
appreciate the authors' comments on the weight losses and the fluid
and electrolyte balances early in these patients's courses.  Also
helpful would be information on furosemide dosage and any other
drugs, such as acetaminophen, which may have been given so we can
further understand the pathophysiology of these two complex patients.
- We do not think there was hypovolemia in either case.  Patient 1
was given only one dose of 600 mg of acetaminophen on the fourth day
of hospitalization during recovery.  Patient 2 received only one dose
of acetaminophen (650 mg) at 2 AM on the twenty-first day of
admission after recovery.  Both patients were receiving antibiotics
and Patient 2 was receiving digitalis as well.  The reason for
production of ADH remains obscure as it is in most cases of SIADH,
although it was mentioned in the discussion that the transient nature
of SIADH in these patients with cystic fibrosis would argue against
the production of this hormone in the lung.

