Oppenheimer-E-H.  Esterly-J-R.

Medical mucoid lesions of the pulmonary artery in cystic fibrosis,
pulmonary hypertension, and other disorders.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pa.  HYPERTENSION-PULMONARY: pa.
MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDES: an.  PULMONARY-ARTERY: pa.
PULMONARY-HEART-DISEASE: pa.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  AUTOPSY.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CONNECTIVE-TISSUE: pa.  FEMALE.  HEART-DEFECTS-CONGENITAL: pa.
HEART-ENLARGEMENT: pa.  HISTOCYTOCHEMISTRY.  HUMAN.  MALE.
MICROSCOPY.  MIDDLE-AGE.

Alterations in the pulmonary vascular bed were reviewed in the
autopsy material from 35 patients with cystic fibrosis of the
pancreas and cor pulmonale.  Hypertrophy of the media or intimal
proliferation of small muscular arteries and arterioles was noted in
eight patients; intimal proliferation of the larger caliber arteries
was seen in seven patients.  The unexpected change, however, was the
presence of interstitial hyaline material in the media of the
pulmonary artery or its major branches in one-third of the
specimens.  The elastic fibers were distorted, but not disrupted,
and the finding was unrelated to the presence or severity of other
vascular changes.  Intimal deposits of the same material were also
present in seven of the patients with intimal proliferation in major
pulmonary arteries.  Identical medial lesions were found in the
pulmonary arteries of seven of 35 children with pulmonary
hypertension and in seven patients with other disorders.  Similar
lesions in the media of the aorta were found in each group of
patients.  The material was not Schiff-reactive, but had the
histochemical characteristics of a connective tissue acid
mucopolysaccharide.

