Report of the committe for a study for evaluation of testing for
cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.

ADULT.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg, me.  DUODENUM: an.  FEMALE.
FINANCING-GOVERNMENT.  FINANCING-ORGANIZED.  GENETIC-COUNSELING.
HUMAN.  INFANT-NEWBORN.  METHODS.  MUCINS: me.  MUCOUS-MEMBRANE: me.
PANCREAS: me.  PANCREATIC-JUICE: an.  PREGNANCY.  PRENATAL-DIAGNOSIS.
PROTEINS: me.  RESEARCH.  REVIEW.  SODIUM-CHLORIDE: an.
SWEAT-GLANDS: me.  SWEAT: an.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.
UNITED-STATES.

The Committee for a Study for Evaluation of Testing for Cystic
Fibrosis was established in August 1974 to assess the reliability of
the data on cystic fibrosis "factors" in serum and exocrine
secretions and in cell culture; evaluate the role of the cystic
fibrosis "factors" in the detection of the heterozygote and in the
diagnosis of cystic fibrosis in the homozygote in utero, during the
neonatal period, and thereafter; evaluate the various screening tests
for the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis in the newborn infant that have
been proposed in this country and abroad, about which there is
considerable controversy; and evaluate the sweat test, which as
currently performed leads to diagnostic errors, both positive and
negative.  Section 1 of this report presents what is known about the
clinical aspects of cystic fibrosis; Section 2 summarizes the diverse
facets of research in cystic fibrosis, including the sources of its
support; and Section 3 is a critical analysis of the state of the art
for testing for cystic fibrosis.  Section 4 comprises the Committee's
recommendations, which it is hoped will be of use to both clinicians
and researchers in the various settings where cystic fibrosis is
diagnosed, treated, and studied.

