Paxson-C-L-Jr.  Lock-J.

Letter: Idiopathic hypoproteinemia in twins.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  DISEASES-IN-TWINS.  HYPOPROTEINEMIA: fg.

ANEMIA: fg.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  EDEMA: fg.  HUMAN.
HYPOPROTEINEMIA: et.  INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.  MALE.  SYNDROME.

Since the report of an edema-anemia-hypoproteinemia symptom complex
in infants with cystic fibrosis, several articles have been
published.  We have also participated in the care of identical male
twins with this interesting symptom complex.  These twins offer two
more examples of the edema-anemia-hypoproteinemia symptom complex
of infant cystic fibrosis.  In the presence of transsupplementation
and the absence of hemolysis, the normal serum iron and increased
peripheral and marrow iron values suggest that the anemia results
from a defect at the level of hemoglobin synthesis, and that iron
transport remains sufficient in the face of protein depletion.
Possibly, a relative iron deficiency occurs after increased
nutritional intake due to increased utilization.  Lee suggested
that the hypoproteinemia is due to loss of protein in stools, but
these twins suggest that the problem lies not with losses through
urine or stool, but rather with failure in protein synthesis.  The
possibility of hypoproteinemia secondary to liver dysfunction is
attractive.  Although all liver function tests and biopsy findings
were normal, this is often the case in patients with cystic
fibrosis.  The anemia is associated with increased serum and marrow
iron values, and is most likely due to a decrease in hemoglobin
synthesis.  Routine cystic fibrosis therapy appears to be
sufficient for clinical recovery for all components of the symptom
complex.

