OHalloran-E-T.

Cystic fibrosis--an eleven year survey.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS.

CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di, oc, th.  FEMALE.
HUMAN.  INFANT.  IRELAND.  MALE.  PROGNOSIS.  TIME-FACTORS.

The purpose of this communication is to review our experiences with
children with cystic fibrosis seen from January 1964 to January 1975
and to analyse the factors which have contributed to the improved
prognosis which has occurred in this period.  The numbers of new
patients have increased from six in 1964 to 12 in 1974.  Both sexes
have been equally affected.  Respiratory infections, failure to
thrive and diarrhoea were the predominant presenting features in that
order, and thus any one of these presenting features should indicate
that cystic fibrosis should at least be considered and excluded.
Each patient was assessed monthly at the clinic during which
attendance formal physiotherapy was carried out and the parents were
instructed in the techniques of percussion and drainage.  Forty-two
of our sixty-four patients are still alive and thirty-three of those
fall into the excellent category, seven into the good and one each
into the fair and poor.  During the period of this review there has
been an obvious improvement with a fall in morbidity and mortality
and with the increasing proportion of patients now in the "excellent"
group.  We attribute these facts to earlier diagnosis, regular and
careful follow-up and a supervised therapeutic programme including
parent education and participation.  It would seem, therefore, that
early diagnosis and active treatment prolong life and give better
health.

