Wolf-R-O.  Taussig-L-M.  Ross-M-E.  Wood-R-E.

Quantitative evaluation of serum pancreatic isoamylases in cystic
fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.  GLYCOSIDE-HYDROLASES: bl.  ISOAMYLASE: bl.
PANCREAS: en.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl, co.  HUMAN.  INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.
ISOAMYLASE: an.  PANCREATIC-DISEASES: en, co, bl.  SALIVARY-GLANDS: en.

The amylase in sera of 20 patients with cystic fibrosis of the
pancreas (CFP), 17 of whom had pancreatic insufficiency (PI), and of
34 normal control subjects was separated into its pancreatic and
salivary components and quantitated. Electrophoretic separation was
achieved on polyacrylamide disc gels with subsequent sectioning of
the gel columns. The amylase content in international units per liter
(IU/L.) was obtained for each section by the insoluble blue starch
substrate method. The mean total serum amylase of the CFP patients
with PI was significantly lower than the control group. A highly
significant decrease was found when the pancreatic isoamylase was
considered alone. The salivary isoamylase level remained essentially
the same. Three patients with CFP but without PI demonstrated higher
than normal pancreatic amylase values in the serum. These patients
may be in an early stage of a progressive involvement of the pancreas
in which there is an increased release of amylase. This method of
electrophoretic separation and quantitation of the serum amylase is
sensitive and efficient and allows the simultaneous processing of
multiple specimens. The results obtained agree with previously
published ratios of serum isoamylases. Our method should be valuable
in the study of other diseases of the exocrine pancreas and salivary
glands.

