Smith-Q-T.  Hamilton-M-J.  Shapiro-B-L.

Simple technique for detection of cystic fibrosis heterozygotes and
homozygotes.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.

BLOOD-PROTEINS: an.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.
ELECTROPHORESIS-POLYACRYLAMIDE-GEL.  HETEROZYGOTE.  HOMOZYGOTE.
HUMAN.  ISOELECTRIC-FOCUSING.  STAINS-AND-STAINING.

We examined serum proteins from 18 CF subjects and 14 control
individuals.  We were unable to detect any consistent differences
between the stained serum protein patterns of the CF and the control
subjects.  These patterns show greater resolution of proteins than
those previously published, but, in contrast, no consistent
differences between CF and control subjects.  In addition, we have
modified the published methods with procedures which would enhance
the likelihood of electrophoretic detection of an abnormal protein
with the reported properties.  A portion of the samples analyzed by
the published procedures also were analyzed by each of these
modifications.  None of the modified procedures showed consistent
differences between serum proteins from the CF and the control
subjects.  No explanation is readily apparent for the difference
between results of Thomas et al. and our own results on the one hand
and the previously reported results on the other.  We attempted to
rigorously reproduce the isoelectric focusing techniques given in the
literature.  However, isoelectric focusing in polyacrylamide gel can
be affected by small technical differences and, thus, factors
essential to reproducing the techniques may not have been evident in
the published procedure.

