Harper-B-L.  Barnett-D-R.  Bissett-J-D.

Immunochemical studies of the plasma and cultured fibroblast media
fractions containing the cystic fibrosis ciliary inhibitor.

CILIA: ph.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.

ANIMAL.  BLOOD-PROTEINS: an.  CULTURE-MEDIA.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.
FIBROBLASTS: me.  HEMAGGLUTINATION-TESTS.  HOMOZYGOTE.  HUMAN.
IGG:  an.  IMMUNE-SERA.  LIPOPROTEINS-HDL: an.  LIPOPROTEINS-LDL: an.
RABBITS.  SERUM-ALBUMIN: an.

The cystic fibrosis ciliary inhibitor (CFCI) has been fractionated
from plasma of cystic fibrosis (CF) homozygotes and from the media of
cultured fibroblasts derived from CF homozygotes. Plasma and
fibroblast media from normal controls have been fractionated in an
identical manner. Fractions from plasma and fibroblast culture media
that demonstrate ciliary inhibitory activity contain several proteins
in a molecular weight range of approximately 5,000-11,000. These
proteins have been partially characterized by immunochemical analysis
with antisera to 33 human serum proteins. Immunological determinants
of albumin, C3 (but not C3a), C4, C5, alpha1-lipoprotein, beta-
lipoprotein, beta2-microglobulin and immunoglobulin light chains have
been detected by hemagglutination in fractions of CF plasma that
inhibited ciliary activity and in analogous fractions from normal
sera. None of the proteins were detected in media of cultured
fibroblasts from either genotype. Since the same proteins and protein
fragments were identified in both CF and normal plasma fractions, and
were not detected in CF fibroblast media, it appears that none of
these proteins can be identified as the CFCI. Identification of these
proteins will permit further purification of the CFCI by
immunochemical methods.

