Quick-C-A.  Warwick-W.

Bronchoscopy and lavage in management of pulmonary complications of
cystic fibrosis.

BRONCHOSCOPY.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  IRRIGATION.  LUNG-DISEASES: th.
LUNG.

ADOLESCENCE.  CASE-REPORT.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.  LUNG-DISEASES: et.

This article presents our experience with bronchoscopy as a
therapeutic and diagnostic tool in the management of patients with
cystic fibrosis.  The results from therapeutic bronchoscopy and
bronchial irrigation in cystic fibrosis patients have been quite
impressive.  Levels of blood gas after the procedure have generally
shown improvement.  The vital capacity and FEF1 in general have shown
small but consistent improvements.  The most dramatic effect has been
the patient's own assessment of the operation.  These patients state
that their breathing is less labored in that it is less rapid and
much deeper.  Bronchoscopy offers an effective therapeutic tool in
the management of pulmonary complications of cystic fibrosis.
Unfortunately, the benefit is short-lived and repeated bronchoscopic
procedures are often necessary.  It must be accepted that there is a
point in time when the cardiopulmonary state of a patient's cystic
fibrosis may have progressed beyond salvageable limits.  It is our
conviction that earlier bronchoscopy and thorough bronchial
irrigation may prevent the critical pulmonary event which is followed
inevitably by progressive deterioration of the pulmonary status of
patients with cystic fibrosis.

