Hoiby-N.  Hertz-J-B.

Precipitating antibodies against E. coli, B. fragilis, and P.
aeruginosa in CF patients and normal persons determined by means of
crossed immunoelectrophoresis.

ANTIBODIES-BACTERIAL: an.  BACTEROIDES-FRAGILIS: im.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im.  ESCHERICHIA-COLI: im.
PSEUDOMONAS-AERUGINOSA: im.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CHILD.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.
IMMUNOELECTROPHORESIS-TWO-DIMENSIONAL.  MALE.

Wallwork and co-workers have proposed that increased absorption of
antigens takes place across the mucosal membranes of the gut and
respiratory tract possibly due to a transient defect in the
production of secretory IgA.  As a consequence of this hypothesis,
one would expect cystic fibrosis patients to produce a pronounced
antibody response against the intestinal bacterial flora.  The
present work was therefore carried out to investigate the antibody
response in CF patients and in normal persons against Escherichia
coli and Bacteroides fragilis which are present in the gut in large
numbers and against the respiratory pathogen P. aeruginosa.  A
significantly higher prevalence of precipitins against each of the 3
bacterial species was found in CF patients compared to normal
persons, and the prevalence of precipitins against each of these
bacteria increased significantly with age.  As regards P. aeruginosa
precipitins, the prevalence and number was significantly higher in CF
patients who have subsequently succumbed compared to CF patients who
are still alive.  Such a correlation between the antibody response
and the prognosis of the patients was not found as regards E. coli or
B. fragilis.  Considering the hypothesis of Wallwork and co-workers
concerning increased absorption of antigens from the gut, it seems
more attractive to suppose that increased absorption of antigens from
the gut flora occurs predominantly in CF patients with P. aeruginosa
lung infection with a pronounced antibody response against P.
aeruginosa.

