Wilson-C-B.  Fudenberg-H-H.

Ciliary dyskinesia factors in cystic fibrosis and asthma.

ASTHMA: bl.  BLOOD-PROTEINS: ip.  CILIA: de.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.

ANTIGENIC-DETERMINANTS.  BIOLOGICAL-ASSAY.  BLOOD-PROTEINS: im, pd.
COMPARATIVE-STUDY.  COMPLEMENT-3.  EPITHELIUM: de.  HUMAN.
MOVEMENT: de.  TRACHEA: de.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-NON-P-H-S.
EPITHELIUM: cy.

Using a modified rabbit tracheal bioassay, we have confirmed that
serum from individuals with bronchial asthma and serum from
homozygotes and heterozygotes for CF cause ciliary dyskinesia,
whereas normal healthy control sera do not.  To evaluate the
specificity of the ciliary dyskinesia activity (CDA) detected, we
bioassayed serum from eight patients with bronchial asthma.  We
found that all eight asthmatic sera caused a ciliary dyskinesia
reaction; however, sera from asthmatics generally caused a
subsequent ciliostasis (cessation of ciliary beating).  Concurrent
evaluation of all sera for CDA by bioassay and for cystic fibrosis
protein (CFP) by electrofocusing showed that all CDA-positive sera
except seven of the eight asthmatic sera were also positive for CFP
(our specific marker for the CF gene).  These two finding indicated
that the activity detected in patients with asthma and other
respiratory diseases could be a substance different from a
CF-specific CDF.  To test our hypothesis, we set out to purify the
CDAs in asthmatic, CF homozygote and OHCF sera.  Representative
results clearly indicate that the asthmatic CDA is found in DEAE-II
and Sephadex G-200 Fraction II, whereas the CDA found in CF and OHCF
sera elutes in DEAE-I and Sephadex G-200 Fractions III and IV (weak
CDA).  We conclude that the CDAs in asthma and CF are distinct
substances.  Our findings may facilitate purification of what we
feel is a CF-specific CDF from CF and OHCF serum.  Purification is a
prerequisite to elucidating the exact nature of this substance and
its role in the pathophysiology of CF.

