Woodruff-C.  Barbero-G-J.

The challenges of cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di, th.  FEMALE.  HOSPITALS.  HUMAN.  INFANT.
INFANT-NEWBORN.  MALE.  MISSOURI.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a generalized disorder of the exocrine glands
inherited as a recessive genetic trait.  The disease was more fully
described as a specific entity in 1939 with a pathology of dilated
ducts and fibrotic changes in the pancreas and copious secretory
intraluminal obstruction of the bronchial tree.  The symptoms
predominately involve the gastrointestinal tract as more frequent,
bulky, malformed and malodorous stools and the respiratory system as
cough, wheezing and signs of chronic respiratory obstruction.  In
certain instances, only one of these two systems will have manifest
symptoms and signs.  An increased concentration of sodium and
chloride in the sweat was discovered in 1953.  The elevated salt
concentration of the sweat has proven to be a reliable diagnostic
tool to confirm the presence of the disease.  Few diseases present in
so many different forms, degrees of severity and at different ages as
does CF.  All present treatments for cystic fibrosis are essentially
symptomatic.  Since the study of families having a child with cystic
fibrosis has shown an incidence of the disease in one fourth of their
siblings, classification of the disease as an autosomal recessive
genetic disorder suggests that the concept of an abnormal gene
related to alteration in a single enzyme should apply.  The diagnosis
of cystic fibrosis in childhood is an overwhelming even to the
patient and his family.

