Kollberg-H.  Mossberg-B.  Afzelius-B-A.  Philipson-K.  Camner-P.

Cystic fibrosis compared with the immotile-cilia syndrome.  A study
of mucociliary clearance, ciliary ultrastructure, clinical picture
and ventilatory function.

BRONCHIAL-DISEASES: di.  CILIA.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.
LUNG-DISEASES-OBSTRUCTIVE: et.

ADULT.  BRONCHI: pp.  BRONCHIAL-DISEASES: pa, pp.  CILIA: ph, ul.
CLINICAL-TRIALS.  COMPARATIVE-STUDY.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pa, pp.
DOUBLE-BLIND-METHOD.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.
LUNG-DISEASES-OBSTRUCTIVE: pa, pp.  MALE.  RESPIRATORY-FUNCTION-TESTS.
RESPIRATORY-TRACT-INFECTIONS: pa, pp.  SPIROMETRY.  SYNDROME.
TERBUTALINE: tu.

Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) were investigated for mucociliary
clearance (with and without stimulation by terbutaline), clinical
picture, ventilatory function and ultrastructure of cilia. The
results were compared with those of patients with congenitally
immotile cilia (immotile-cilia syndrome). Mucociliary clearance could
be demonstrated in all the seven CF patients who succeeded in
inhaling the test aerosol. Ciliary ultrastructure from a deceased CF
patient was normal. Patients with the immotile cilia syndrome had no
substantial clearance and defective cilia. The CF patients coughed
more during the clearance measurements than any other group studied
earlier, and their coughing was effective. One patient succeeded in
avoiding coughing in both measurements and had faster clearance when
he got terbutaline than when he got the vehicle. Although younger,
the CF patients tended to be more obstructed in their lungs and more
handicapped than the patients suffering from the immotile-cilia
syndrome. The latter patients had more discomfort from rhinitis,
sinusitis and otitis than had the CF patients. An impairment of the
mucociliary transport rate is hence unlikely to be a primary
pathogenic factor for the respiratory tract disease in CF patients.

