Beratis-N-G.  Turner-B-M.  Weiss-R.  Hirschhorn-K.

Arylsulfatase B deficiency in Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome: Cellular
studies and carrier identification.

ARYLSULFATASES: df.  MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDOSIS-6: en.
MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDOSIS: en.  SULFATASES: df.

AMNIOTIC-FLUID: en.  ARYLSULFATASES: an.  CELL-LINE.  CELLS-CULTURED.
CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CHONDROITIN.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.  FEMALE.
FIBROBLASTS: en.  GALACTOSEMIA: en.  GAUCHERS-DISEASE: en.
GLYCOGENOSIS-2: en.  HETEROZYGOTE.  HOMOZYGOTE.  HUMAN.
LEUKOCYTES:  en.  LEUKODYSTROPHY-METACHROMATIC: en.
LIPOCHONDRODYSTROPHY: en.  LYMPHOID-TISSUE: en.  LYSOSOMES: en.  MALE.
METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: en.  MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDOSIS-6: fg.
PREGNANCY.  SKIN.

Arylsulfatase B deficiency was demonstrated in peripheral leukocytes,
cultured skin fibroblasts, and a lymphoid line derived from a patient
with MLS. The patient's parents demonstrated levels of arylsulfatase
B that were intermediate between those found in patient and those in
control subjects. The activity (mean plus or minus SD) in leukocytes
from normal subjects, the patient's parents, and the patient was
113.7 plus or minus 36.2, 31.0, and 5.2 nmol 4-nitrocatechol/mg
protein/hr, respectively. In skin fibroblasts of the same subjects
the activity was 145.2 plus or minus 41.6, 58.5, and 7.0,
respectively. Nine other lysosomal enzymes were normal in skin
fibroblasts of the patient. No arylsulfatase B activity was detected
in a lymphoid line established from the patient with MLS. The
arylsulfatase B activity in cultured amniotic fluid cells from 10
normal pregnancies was 203.2 plus or minus 49.9.

