Crawfurd-M-D.

Letter: Frequency of cystic-fibrosis gene.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  GENES.

CAUCASOID-RACE.  COMPARATIVE-STUDY.  HETEROZYGOTE.  HOMOZYGOTE.
HUMAN.

Mr Stuart and Dr Burdon speculate on the possibility that the high
frequency of the cystic-fibrosis gene among Caucasians may be due to
the heterozygotes having some advantage in biological fitness over
normal homozygotes.  They suggest that this might be due to
increased resistance to typhus, once endemic in Europe, on the basis
of the well-known immunological cross-reactivity between the
causative organism, Rickettsia prowazeki, and certain strains of the
species Proteus vulgaris, which is agglutinated by sera from
cystic-fibrosis patients and heterozygotes.  However, there is no
evidence that this agglutination is an immunological reaction.  It
appears microscopically to be associated with disorganisation and
inhibition of the bacterial flagellae leading to clumping of the
organisms.  As such it is probably analogous to the effect on cilia
of rabbit trachea and oyster or mussel gills.  The cilia factor,
although associated with IgG, is now known not to be IgG itself and
may well be the C3a component of complement.  These and other
observations, such as those on salivary and sweat gland secretions
and on sodium flux, suggest that all these phenomena are membrane
rather than immunological effects.  Although it is possible that a
Proteus flagella antigen could also be the binding site for the
cilia factor, this seems improbable.  An alternative hypothesis is
that heterozygotes for the cystic-fibrosis gene have increased
resistance to tuberculosis.  This would meet the requirement of a
common disease recently endemic in Europe at least as well as
typhus, and is suggested by indirect evidence from a family study
demonstrating a significantly lower incidence of tuberculosis among
the parents of cystic-fibrosis patients than among parents of
controls.

