Taussig-L-M.  Lemen-R-J.

Chronic obstructive lung disease.

LUNG-DISEASES-OBSTRUCTIVE.

AIRWAY-OBSTRUCTION: di.  ASTHMA: di.  ATELECTASIS: di.
BRONCHIAL-DISEASES: di.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  HUMAN.
HYPOVENTILATION: et.  IMMUNOLOGIC-DEFICIENCY-SYNDROMES: di.
LUNG-DISEASES-OBSTRUCTIVE: di, et, th.  MEDICAL-HISTORY-TAKING.
PHYSICAL-EXAMINATION.  PNEUMONIA-ASPIRATION: di.  REVIEW.
TRACHEAL-DISEASES: di.

This chapter deals with the problems of chronic obstructive lung
disease in children by first considering an approach to the
evaluation, diagnosis and management of various forms of chronic
obstructive lung disease with emphasis on history, physical and
laboratory data.  A brief overview of therapeutic principles that can
be applied to most forms of chronic obstructive lung disease are
included.  The second part of this chapter consists of reviews of
some of the more common diseases producing chronic airway obstruction
in infancy and childhood.  Patient evaluation topics discussed
include history and physical examination and laboratory studies.
Therapeutic principles in the management of chronic obstructive lung
disease, pediatric precursors of chronic obstructive lung disease,
and chronic obstructive lung disorders (asthma, cystic fibrosis,
bronchopulmonary dysplasia, aspiration pneumonitis, atelectasis,
bronchomalacia and tracheomalacia, immunodeficiency, bronchiectasis,
chronic bronchitis, and chronic upper airway obstruction with
hypoventilation) are examined.

