McFarlene-H.  Allan-J-D.  Malhotra-A.  Hozel-A.  Wallwork-J-C.

The precipitins and hypersensitivity reactions in cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im.  HYPERSENSITIVITY: im.  PRECIPITINS.

COMPLEMENT-3.  ELECTROPHORESIS-AGAR-GEL.
FLUORESCENT-ANTIBODY-TECHNIC.  HUMAN.  IGA-SECRETORY.  IGE.
OVALBUMIN: im.  SALIVA: im.  SERUM-ALBUMIN-BOVINE: im.  SPUTUM: im.

The large number and wide variety of precipitins detected in the
sputum of cystic fibrosis patients suggest that the precipitins may
be nonprotective and even harmful to the patients.  These sputum
precipitins were directed principally against food, fungi, bacteria,
and human body tissue.  On the other hand, precipitins to
Staphylococcus alpha-hemolysin was the main type of immunoprecipitin
detected in CF serum and was found in 60% of the serum specimens
examined.  It seems likely that the precipitins in patients with CF
may be involved in the formation of immune complexes which, in
conjunction with complement, may be responsible for the respiratory
and gastrointestinal lesions that are common in patients with CF.
The immune complexes may be the result of excess food and bacterial
antigens escaping across the gut and lungs as a result of some
abnormality of the SIgA system.  Over 80% of the sputum specimens
tested gave positive precipitins in agar gel against human seminal
fluid and colostrum, suggesting that some of the antibodies formed in
CF patients could be directed against host tissue, and may account
for an autoimmune-type reaction in CF.  Crossreaction between the
high-titer antibody to Staphylococcus and basement membrane of lungs
and pancreas, with complement activation, may occur in CF and
required further study.  The high number of B-cells, as detected by
antibody, coated complement, activated sheep erythrocytes, and EAC
rosettes, may be partly responsible for the synthesis of the variety
of antibodies detected in CF patients.

