Lieberman-J.

Letter: Complement components in cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im.  COMPLEMENT: ip.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  HUMAN.  MALE.  FEMALE.  COMPARATIVE-STUDY.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  GEL-DIFFUSION-TESTS.  SEX-FACTORS.
HETEROZYGOTE.

Freshly obtained sera were assayed from 14 C.F. young adult
patients (age 18 - 33, 7 men and 7 women) and from 15 control
patients with bronchiectasis or chronic bronchitis in whom C.F. had
been ruled out.  In addition, the blood from 2 mothers
(heterozygotes) of C.F. patients was assayed.  The mean C3 level in
the C.F. men was slightly lower than that in the male controls,
whereas the C.F. women had a significantly higher mean level of C3
than did the female controls.  The C3 level in the C.F. women was
also significantly higher than that of the C.F. men (p < 0.01, t =
3.855 by the Student's t test).  The female controls had slightly
higher C3 levels than did the male controls, but this difference
was not significant.  Comparison of C3 levels from all of the C.F.
subjects to the controls shows considerable overlap in values,
especially in the men.  These studies suggest that an assay of
serum-C3 does not effectively distinguish C.F. subjects from
patients with other types of chronic lung disease.  However, the
differences between C.F. women and C.F. men is interesting and
deserves further attention.  Our data from C.F. young adults do not
fully confirm those reported by Conover et al., but it is possible
that the experimental effects of carboxypeptidase B observed by
Conover might result from action of the enzyme on the C.F. factor
of serum, although its identity most likely is not C3a.

