Weng-T-R.  Spence-J-A.  Polgar-G.  Nyboer-J.

Measurement of regional lung function by tetrapolar electrical
impedance plethysmography.

PLETHYSMOGRAPHY-IMPEDANCE: mt.  PULMONARY-CIRCULATION.
RESPIRATORY-FUNCTION-TESTS: mt.

ADOLESCENCE.  CASE-REPORT.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.  ELECTRODES.  FEMALE.
HEART-DEFECTS-CONGENITAL: pp.  HUMAN.  MALE.
PLETHYSMOGRAPHY-IMPEDANCE: is.  PULMONARY-VEINS: ab.
RESPIRATORY-FUNCTION-TESTS: is.  RESPIRATORY-INSUFFICIENCY: pp.
VENTILATION-PERFUSION-RATIO.

This study demonstrates the clinical feasibility of atraumatically
measuring dynamic regional lung function with tetrapolar electrical
impedance plethysmography (EIP) in the pediatric age group. A
tetrapolar electrode system was used because of its ability to detect
local baseline and pulsatile impedance changes, minimal electrode-
tissue impedance interference, and uniform current distribution.
Studies performed on 4 children 4 to 15 years old with various
pulmonary diseases are presented. The information obtained on their
regional ventilation and pulsatile perfusion by EIP was found to
agree closely with pulmonary ventilation and perfusion scans. In one
case, EIP detected pulsatile perfusion abnormalities which were not
apparent in the non-pulsatile perfusion scan but were demonstrated by
cineangiography. It is concluded that tetrapolar EIP can provide
safe, reliable regional information about ventilation and perfusion
in diseased lungs, and because of its atraumatic approach, is
technically most suitable for use in children.

