Rosenfield-N.  Treves-S.

Liver-spleen scanning in pediatrics.

BILIARY-TRACT-DISEASES: di.  HEPATOMA: di.  KIDNEY-NEOPLASMS: di.
LIVER-DISEASES: di.  LIVER-NEOPLASMS: di.  NEPHROBLASTOMA: di.
RADIONUCLIDE-IMAGING.  SPLENIC-DISEASES: di.

ANEMIA-SICKLE-CELL: di.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  CYSTS: di.
DIAGNOSTIC-ERRORS.  EVALUATION-STUDIES.  HEPATOMEGALY: et.  HUMAN.
IODINE-RADIOISOTOPES: du.  IODINE-RADIOISOTOPES.  CHOLESTASIS: di.
LIVER-CIRRHOSIS: di.  SPLENIC-RUPTURE: di.  SPLENOMEGALY: et.
TECHNETIUM.

Liver-spleen scans on 254 children were reviewed retrospectively
with regard to accuracy and yield of examination.  The scan
predicted abnormality correctly 95% of the time and normality
correctly 86% of the time.  Pitfalls in interpretation include the
nonspecificity of abnormalities present on the scan, confusion of
extrinsic with intrinsic defects, and normal anatomical variations
with pathology.  The technetium-99m-sulfur colloid scan was found to
be most helpful in diagnosing splenic abnormalities, in working up
abdominal masses, and in evaluating tumor patients with a baseline
scan.  It was found least useful in patients with fever of unknown
origin, abdominal pain, diffuse liver disease, and most inflammatory
conditions.  Liver abscesses were not found in febrile, otherwise
healthy children.  The iodine-131-rose bengal liver scan was found
to be useful to differentiate potentially curable lesions (e.g.,
choledochal cysts) from those not surgically treatable.

