Smalley-C-A.  Addy-D-P.  Anderson-C-M.

Limitations of the sweat test [letter].

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  SWEAT: an.

CHILD.  CHLORIDES: an.  HUMAN.  PANCREAS: pp.  SODIUM: an.

We are in agreement with Schwarz et al. when they state that the
sweat test has some limitations in the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis
(CF) and that the diagnosis is not justified on the basis of an
abnormal sweat test unless there is other supporting evidence of the
disease.  In our experience a much greater problem of sweat test
accuracy occurs in hospitals where the test is carried out on a very
much smaller number of patients and where the laboratory has a much
lesser degree of experience than that of the authors.  We have had a
significant number of patients referred to our regional children's
hospital who have had abnormal sweat electrolyte measurements
elsewhere, but unequivocally normal measurements when repeated by a
laboratory carrying out a large number of tests.  We have not needed
to go to the extent of serial collections of sweat and of giving
spironolactone as have the authors.  If we obtain a test within the
'grey area' on repeated occasions, we carefully seek other evidence
of the disease, particularly evidence of pancreatic disease. - We do
not advocate the general use of spironolactone: the merit of this
drug in our experiments on certain patients was merely to support our
suspicion of temporary hyperaldosteronism, a condition which might
have led to erroneous conclusions in the absence of K or Cl
determinations.

