Griffiths-A-D.  Bull-F-E.

Sweat testing for cystic fibrosis [letter].

CHLORIDES: an.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  SWEAT: an.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: oc.  FALSE-NEGATIVE-REACTIONS.  HUMAN.
INFANT-NEWBORN.  MASS-SCREENING.

Bray et al. conclude that the mass screening of newborn babies with
chloride ion-selective electrodes is a feasible method for the
diagnosis of cystic fibrosis; they also suggest that this procedure
might be used in conjunction with meconium analysis to reduce the
incidence of false positive results.  In 1972 we reported the details
of a child with proved cystic fibrosis in whom raised sweat sodium
but normal sweat chloride levels were obtained during treatment with
cloxacillin.  Attention was drawn to the implication of the finding
with regard to screening procedures, and the suggestion was made
that, in at least some children with cystic fibrosis, the cloxacillin
radical might replace the chloride ion in the sweat.  When mass
screening for cystic fibrosis is to be undertaken using methods based
on the estimation of sweat chloride levels, it is therefore prudent
to inquire whether the infant is receiving medication from any source
and, if so, to interpret the results with caution. - These are
instances of false-negative sweat chloride readings, but there is no
evidence yet from our 1205 tests of any negative cystic fibrosis
sweat chloride; the statistical chance of this is in any case small.
These several cases suggest a need for a systematic investigation of
the effect of medication on sweat ion levels in general as well as in
cystic fibrosis cases.

