Blenkarn-G-D.  Lanning-C-F.  Kylstra-J-A.

Anaesthetic management of volume controlled unilateral lung lavage.

ANESTHESIA-GENERAL: mt.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: th.  DIAZEPAM.  HALOTHANE.
IRRIGATION: mt.  PULMONARY-ALVEOLAR-PROTEINOSIS: th.

ANESTHESIA-INTRATRACHEAL: mt.  ANESTHESIA-INTRAVENOUS: mt.
BLOOD-PRESSURE: de.  CARBON-DIOXIDE: bl.  COMPARATIVE-STUDY.
DIAZEPAM: ad.  HALOTHANE: ad.  HEART-RATE: de.  HUMAN.
HYDROGEN-ION-CONCENTRATION.  IRRIGATION: ae.  KETAMINE: ad.
OXYGEN-CONSUMPTION.  OXYGEN: bl.  THIOPENTAL: ad.

Conventional means to facilitate clearance of inspissated material
obstructing gas exchange in the alveoli and finer airways of
patients with alveolar proteinosis, asthma, and mucoviscidosis, are
often not very effective.  The mechanical removal of such materials
by volume controlled unilateral lung lavage with saline has been of
benefit in selected patients refractory to conventional therapy
(particularly those with alveolar proteinosis or accidentally
inhaled radioactive particles).  This report describes the
anaesthetic and lavage techniques currently used in managing
patients with alveolar proteinosis and mucoviscidosis and in whom
lung lavage repeated at approximately six-month intervals has
resulted in both subjective and objective improvements.  In 14
lavages in four different patients (10 lavages in two patients with
alveolar proteinosis and four lavages in two patients with
mucoviscidosis) certain physiologic responses to lung lavage,
particularly those related to oxygen transport, were measured
quantitatively in an attempt to evaluate and to optimize anaesthetic
and lavage techniques.  The maintenance anaesthetic during lavage
was selected randomly, so that each patient received light
anaesthesia with ketamine/diazepam during one lavage and light
halothane anaesthesia during lavage of the contralateral lung.

