Schiotz-P-O.  Hoiby-N.  Juhl-F.  Permin-H.  Nielsen-H.  Svehag-S-E.

Immune complexes in cystic fibrosis.

ANTIGEN-ANTIBODY-COMPLEX.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  ANTINUCLEAR-FACTORS: an.  CHILD.
CHRONIC-DISEASE.  COMPLEMENT: an.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  FEMALE.
HAPTOGLOBINS: an.  HUMAN.  IMMUNOGLOBULINS: an.  MALE.
PRECIPITINS: an.  PSEUDOMONAS-INFECTIONS: co, im.
RESPIRATORY-TRACT-INFECTIONS: co, im.  RHEUMATOID-FACTOR: an.
SKIN: im.

Eleven patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) chronically infected with
mucoid P. aeruginosa and ten patients without P. aeruginosa infection
were examined for occurrence of circulating immune complexes, for
immune complex deposits in the dermo-epidermal junction of the skin
and for precipitins against P. aeruginosa, S. aureus, H. influenzae
and D. pneumoniae antigens. The serum concentrations of haptoglobin,
orosomucoid, immunoglobulins, C1q, C3, C4 and total haemolytic
complement, antinuclear and rheumatoid factor activities as well as
white blood cell counts and erythrocyte sedimentation rates were
determined also. The results indicated that 6 patients from the
chronically P. aeruginosa infected group, exhibiting a spectrum of
serum precipitins against P. aeruginosa antigens, also had immune
complexes in the serum, while only one patient (suffering from
selective IgA deficiency) in the group without P. aeruginosa
infection was positive for soluble immune complexes. Granular
deposits of IgM was found in the skin of 10 of the chronically P.
aeruginosa infected patients and in 7 of the patients without P.
aeruginosa infection. A few pactients in both groups had dermo-
epidermal deposits of C1q, C3 or fibrinogen as well. Eight of the
patients in the chronically infected group and five in the group
without P. aeruginosa infection had organ non-specific antinuclear
factors. The haptoglobin levels appeared to be elevated in the
chronically infected patients (p less than 0.05). None of the other
parameters showed any significant difference between the two groups.

