Lebenthal-E.

Pancreatic function and disease in infancy and childhood.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.  PANCREAS: ph.  PANCREATIC-DISEASES: pp.
PANCREATITIS: et.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  DIGESTION.  HUMAN.
INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.  PANCREAS: ab, en.
PANCREATIC-DISEASES: dt, en.  PANCREATIC-NEOPLASMS: pp.
PANCREATITIS: th.  REVIEW.  STARCH.  SYNDROME.

Normal development of the pancreas is of great importance in the
neonate and infant.  This review evaluates the development of
exocrine pancreatic function, the hormonal control of this function,
the interrelationship of pancreatic enzymes and pancreatic adaptation
to food.  The functional changes that occur in different disease
processes of the pancreas affecting the infant will also be
discussed.  Since the treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency
with orally administered pancreatic enzymes in children is often more
difficult than expected, the practical approach to enzyme treatment
will be discussed.  The morphological development and congenital
malformations of the pancreas, tumors of the pancreas, the normal
function of the exocrine pancreas, the development of the exocrine
pancreatic function, developmental aspects of amylase activity and
starch digestion, dietary adaptation of the exocrine pancreas,
pancreatic function tests, pancreatic insufficiency, cystic fibrosis,
Shwachman syndrome, isolated pancreatic enzyme deficiencies, the
treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, pancreatitis in
childhood, and the treatment of acute pancreatitis are discussed.

