Waring-W-W.

Current management of cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: th.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  AEROSOLS.  AMYLASES: tu.
BRONCHODILATOR-AGENTS: tu.  CALORIC-INTAKE.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dh, di, dt.  DIETARY-FATS.  DIETARY-PROTEINS.
DRAINAGE.  HUMAN.  INFANT.  IRRIGATION.  LIPASE: tu.
PARENTERAL-FEEDING.  PEPTIDE-HYDROLASES: tu.  REVIEW.  TRIGLYCERIDES.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-NON-P-H-S.  VITAMINS: tu.  WATER.

Although forty years have passed since the discovery of the clinical
entity called (for lack of a better name) cystic fibrosis, its
treatment remains both symptomatic and controversial.  Moreover, the
efficacy of therapy has been difficult to evaluate for several
reasons: the lack of a suitable animal model for therapeutic
experimentation, the protean manifestations of the disease, the
natural variations in its severity, the prolonged periods of
observation that are required by its very chronicity and frequently
the lack of satisfactory clinical parameters by which to score
response.  Stated in its simplest form, the treatment of cystic
fibrosis is directed towards the long-term control of salt loss,
malabsorption and bronchial obstruction, the management of several
complications of the disease and the establishment of a positive
therapeutic environment that minimizes anxiety and depression.  The
purpose of this review are to help the pediatric practitioner gain
security in his day-to-day management of children with the disease
and to advocate an effective working relationship between the
practitioner and a regional cystic fibrosis or pediatric pulmonary
center for long-term patient management.  Problems in diagnosis,
treatment of salt loss, the prevention and treatment of
malabsorption, the prevention and treatment of bronchial obstruction,
the prevention and treatment of certain complications, and the
psychosocial support of the patient and family are discussed.

