McCrae-W-M.

Emotional problems in cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  STRESS-PSYCHOLOGICAL.

ADULT.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  FAMILY.  FEMALE.
GENETIC-COUNSELING.  HUMAN.  PARENT-CHILD-RELATIONS.
PROFESSIONAL-PATIENT-RELATIONS.

The emotional distress associated with cystic fibrosis is
considerable.  From the moment of diagnosis, delayed or not, the
parents' problems multiply and for the most part these problems are
at first only vaguely comprehended.  Many parents embark on the long
haul of caring for their child in almost total ignorance of the
disease and its implications.  The fact that the disease is inherited
is of outstanding importance to the parents.  The basis of genetic
counseling in the disease is the explanation of recessive
inheritance.  Even when genetic counseling has been given effectively
and the parents have decided to have no further children, the family
planning problem is not yet solved.  The physiotherapist is also
necessarily concerned with the emotional state and behaviour of the
child.  Except in the latest stages of this disease the child's
emotional distress is not directly related to the discomfort of his
symptoms.  Over-protection by parents is understandable but it is
important to persuade them that it is undesirable.  Perhaps the most
difficult questions of protection arise in relation to the child's
knowledge of his own disorder.  Cystic fibrosis is a miserable
disease and the cause of much distress, emotional and otherwise.

