Feig-S-A.  Segel-G-B.  Kern-K-A.  Osher-A-B.  Schwartz-R-H.

Erythrocyte transport function in cystic fibrosis.

CELL-MEMBRANE-PERMEABILITY.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  ERYTHROCYTES:  me.

ADENOSINE-TRIPHOSPHATASE: me.  BLOOD-PROTEINS.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.
ERYTHROCYTES: en.  FEMALE.  HETEROZYGOTE.  HOMOZYGOTE.  HUMAN.
MAGNESIUM: me.  OUABAIN: pd.  POTASSIUM: me.  POTASSIUM-ISOTOPES.
RADIOISOTOPES.  SODIUM: me.  SODIUM-ISOTOPES.

ATPase activity and monovalent cation transport were examined in
erythrocytes (RBC) of subjects with cystic fibrosis (CF).  The RBC
membrane (Ca2+)ATPase activity of homozygous patients and obligate
heterozygotes was indistinguishable from that of normal control
subjects.  This was true similarly for total, ouabain-sensitive,
and ouabain-insensitive (Na+-K+)ATPase.  Total, ouabain-sensitive,
and ouabain-insensitive 24Na+ transport were normal in CF cells.
Ouabain-induced Na+ accumulation was similar in CF and normal RBC.
Measurements of K+ transport in CF RBC were, likewise, normal.  We
conclude that intrinsic ATPase and monovalent transport functions
are normal in CF RBC.  We were unable to confirm several
abnormalities in these cells reported previously.  The CF RBC is not
helpful in defining a transport abnormality in that entity.  These
studies document normal intrinsic transport function in RBC of
patients with CF.  There have been reports of an abnormal serum
factor in patients with CF.  This factor might be involved in the
production of a transport defect in CF.  Further studies are
indicated to determine whether CF plasma contains a factor capable
of altering membrane transport functions of normal RBC.

