Letter: Serum alpha-fetoprotein in cystic fibrosis.

ALPHA-FETOPROTEINS: an.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  FETAL-PROTEINS: an.

CHILD.  COUNSELING.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  HUMAN.
RADIOIMMUNOASSAY.

Over the past 12 months we have examined by both
counterimmunoelectrophoresis and radioimmunoassay sera from (a) 37
patients with cystic fibrosis (age 6 months to 17 years), (b) 10 of
their siblings, and (c) 24 of their parents for the presence of
raised serum levels of AFP.  By counterimmunoelectrophoresis we were
unable to detect an increased serum concentration of AFP in any of
the cystic fibrosis patients or their relatives.  In addition, the
results from the radioimmunoassay method showed that all of the
cystic fibrosis patients and their relatives had normal
concentrations of AFP in their serum. - Using a double antibody
radioimmunoassay we found the mean serum AFP for seven children with
cystic fibrosis to be little different from that of controls, while
all seven values fell within the normal range for this series. - In
seven patients considered to have cystic fibrosis on the basis of a
sweat chloride level above 65 mmol/l the mean serum
alpha-fetoprotein (AFP level was 1825 (range 130 - 2360) microg/l.
The corresponding level in the patients was 433 (range 80 - 1055)
microg/l.  Drug therapy given to these patients may have a subtle
hepatoxic influence, thereby causing a rise in AFP levels.  The
severity of the disease does not influence the degree of elevation.
There is a corresponding rise in carcinoembryonic antigen levels
also, but the latter is related to the degree of tissue damage and
results from the sero-cross-reactivity between mucus-producing
respiratory mucosa and fetal tissues.

