Nadler-H-L.

Prenatal detection of genetic defects.

HEREDITARY-DISEASES: di.  PRENATAL-DIAGNOSIS: mt.

ADRENAL-HYPERPLASIA-CONGENITAL: di.  ALPHA-FETOPROTEINS: an.
AMINO-ACID-METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: di.  AMNIOCENTESIS: mt.
AMNIOSCOPY: mt.  CARBOHYDRATE-METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: di.
CENTRAL-NERVOUS-SYSTEM-DISEASES: di, fg.
CHROMOSOME-ABNORMALITIES:  di.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  FEMALE.
GENES-RECESSIVE.  HEMOGLOBINOPATHIES: di.  HUMAN.
HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA: di, fg.  LIPID-METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: di.
MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDOSIS: di.  PREGNANCY.  REVIEW.
SEX-CHROMOSOME-ABNORMALITIES: di.  ULTRASONICS:  du.

The intrauterine detection of genetic disorders represents one of the
exciting advances in medicine.  The major emphasis in this chapter
will be a detailed review of the newer approaches toward antenatal
detection of congenital malformations and hemoglobinopathies as well
as an overview of the experience and problems of antenatal detection
for chromosomal aberrations and inborn errors of metabolism.
Approaches to prenatal diagnosis of genetic disorders include
amniocentesis, visualization of the fetus, and fetal blood sampling.
Prenatal detection of genetic disorders has become a reality.  The
area is evolving so rapidly that the major indications for
intrauterine diagnosis have substantially changed within the past
year.  Prior to this time, maternal age, previous Down's syndrome,
inborn errors of metabolism and X-linked recessive disorders were the
primary criteria, with approximately 85% of the cases being used for
cytogenetic analysis.  Within the past year, in a number of
laboratories, about half of the referrals for amniocentesis have been
for central nervous system defects.  Certainly with the development
of technics for fetal blood sampling, this distribution of the
frequencies of indication may, once again, change substantially.
Most probably for the next few years cytogenetic abnormalities and
neural tube defects will be the most common indications for
amniocentesis.  Amniocentesis will continue to be offered to many
patients with inborn errors of metabolism and probably will be
available for monitoring of hemoglobinopathies and other disorders of
fetal blood as well as for accurate knowledge of the health of the
fetus.

