Letter: Cell-mediated immunity in patients with cystic fibrosis.

IMMUNITY-CELLULAR.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dt.  HUMAN.  IMMUNITY-CELLULAR: de.
PREDNISOLONE:  pd.

We agree with the comment of Dr Feighery and Mr Woods that a low
migration index signifies sensitivity to an antigen which can be
achieved only by functionally active immunocompetent cells.  However,
we must emphasise that the functions of active immunocompetent cells
may or may not be impaired, depending upon the antigens to which such
cells are sensitised.  Since comparative cells from age-matched
controls and from blood donors did not show such sensitisation to
those antigens to which the cystic fibrosis cells were sensitised
then there is no doubt that the normal function of these
immunocompetent cells in the patients with CF is indeed impaired.
When one considers that steroids are known immunosuppressants it is
certainly not surprising that treatment of the CF patients with
prednisolone caused a decreased sensitivity of these sensitised CF
cells to the antigens.  Indeed, therapeutic concentrations of
steroids were able to reduce the ability of sensitised spleen cells
and of lymph-node cells to destroy target cells in vitro.  Apart from
this inhibition of sensitised cells by steroids, 90% of sensitised
lymphocytes were killed when prednisolone 1 mg/l was present during
the sensitisation phase.  In addition it was observed in man that if
cortisol or prednisolone was given two hours before abrading the
skin, then there occurred a marked reduction of emigrations of both
mononuclear cells and polymorphs into the area, thus inhibiting the
mobilisation of macrophages.  We believe that the situation with
regard to steroid therapy and inhibition of migration of leukocytes
from CF patients is similar.

