Lieberman-J.  Kaneshiro-W.

Lymphocytic acid-hydrolases and response to mitogens in cystic
fibrosis.

ACID-PHOSPHATASE: bl.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.  GLYCOSIDE-HYDROLASES: bl.
LYMPHOCYTES: en.  MITOGENS: pd.

ACETYLGLUCOSAMINIDASE: bl.  AMYLASES: bl.  BETA-GALACTOSIDASES: bl.
BLOOD-PROTEINS: an.  CELLS-CULTURED.  COMPARATIVE-STUDY.
CULTURE-MEDIA.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  FUCOSIDASE: bl.
GLUCOSIDASES: bl.  GLUCURONIDASE: bl.  HETEROZYGOTE.  HOMOZYGOTE.
HUMAN.  MANNOSIDASES: bl.  STIMULATION-CHEMICAL.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-NON-P-H-S.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.  XYLOSIDASES: bl.

In the present study, we compared the levels of a series of cultured
lymphocytic acid-hydrolase enzymes in cystic fibrosis homozygotes,
heterozygotes and controls; compared the effects of three different
mitogens on these levels; and studied the effect of CF vs control
serum in the culture medium.  Our observations provide an entirely
new interpretation for the apparent changes occurring in lymphocytic
enzymes during culture of lymphocytes with mitogens, and suggest that
a serum factor is present in cystic fibrosis serum that mimics
mitogens in this regard.  Lymphocytic acid-hydrolases and total
protein are present in higher concentrations in lymphocytes cultured
for 48 hours without mitogen when CF homozygous or heterozygous serum
is present in the culture media.  This appears to result from a CF
serum factor that has mitogen-like activity and prevents loss of cell
protein during culture.  Responsiveness of the cellular proteins to
mitogens is blunted when CF serum is present in the culture media,
either because the cell proteins are already maximally stimulated by
the CF serum factor, or the factor blocks or modifies the action of
mitogens on lymphocyte protein content.  This phenomenon is useful
for detection of CF heterozygosity, and appears to reflect the
genetic abnormality causing cystic fibrosis.

