Roy-C-C.  Weber-A-M.  Morin-C-L.  Combes-J-C.  Nussle-D.  Megevand-A.
Lasalle-R.

Abnormal biliary lipid composition in cystic fibrosis.  Effect of
pancreatic enzymes.

BILE: me.  CHOLELITHIASIS: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  LIPIDS: me.
PANCREATIC-EXTRACTS: tu.

BILE-ACIDS-AND-SALTS: me.  BILE: an.  CHILD.  CHOLESTEROL: me.
CHOLIC-ACIDS: an.  COMPARATIVE-STUDY.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dt.  FEMALE.
GLYCINE: an.  HUMAN.  MALE.  PHOSPHOLIPIDS: me.  SEX-FACTORS.
TAURINE: an.

Because of the increased incidence of gallstones in cystic fibrosis
we compared biliary lipid composition in 26 patients with cystic
fibrosis, seven children with cholelithiasis but no cystic-fibrosis
and 13 controls. Eighteen of the cystic fibrosis group had
cholecystograms, and only one had gallstones. In 14 patients with
cystic fibrosis who had stopped taking pancreatic enzymes for one
week molar percentage of lipid composition accounted for by
cholesterol (mean +/- S.E., 16.3 +/- 2.9) and saturation index (2.0
+/- 0.3) were comparable to values of the cholelithiasis group and
higher (P less than 0.01) than those of controls. In 12 patients with
cystic fibrosis taking pancreatic enzymes, molar percentage of
cholesterol (8.6 +/- 1.7) and saturation index (1.0 +/- 0.1) did not
differ from those of controls; in cystic fibrosis there was a
preponderance of cholic over chenodeoxycholic acid both off (1.7 +/-
0.2) and on (1.9 +/- 0.3) therapy as compared to the cholelithiasis
(0.7 +/- 0.1) and control (0.8 +/- 0.0) groups. The glycine/taurine
ratio of conjugated bile acids were lower in enzyme-treated patients
with cystic fibrosis (3.7 +/- 0.6) than in patients off treatment
(6.4 +/- 1.0), but was higher (P less than 0.01) than in controls
(1.8 +/- 0.2). Bile is lithogenic in untreated cystic fibrosis and
responds to pancreatic enzymes.

