Talamo-R-C.  Stiehm-E-R.  Schwartz-R-H.

Immunologic aspects of cystic fibrosis.  pp.  195-217.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im.

ALPHA-1-ANTITRYPSIN: me.  ANTIBODIES.  ASPERGILLOSIS: et.
B-LYMPHOCYTES: im.  COMPLEMENT: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.
FACTOR-XII.  HLA-ANTIGENS.  HUMAN.  HYPERSENSITIVITY: et.  IGA: me.
IGD: me.  IGG: me.  IGM: me.  IMMUNE-COMPLEX-DISEASE.
IMMUNOLOGIC-DEFICIENCY-SYNDROMES: co.  LUNG: pp.  MONOGRAPH.
PANCREATIC-EXTRACTS: im.  PHAGOCYTOSIS.  PSEUDOMONAS-INFECTIONS: et.
RESPIRATORY-TRACT-INFECTIONS: et.  REVIEW.
STAPHYLOCOCCAL-INFECTIONS: et.  T-LYMPHOCYTES: im.

Because of the prominent role of infection in cystic fibrosis, and
because of the genetic nature of both cystic fibrosis and specific
immune defects, considerable effort has been expended in determining
if there are hereditary immune defects in cystic fibrosis patients
that render them susceptible to infection.  Against a congenital
immune defect is the fact that the infections nearly always are
localized to the lung with the same two organisms, rather than
infections at multiple sites involving multiple organisms.  Specific
immune mechanisms in the B and T cell systems are examined.
Nonspecific host defense mechanisms include the complement system,
phagocytosis, pulmonary clearance, the pulmonary barrier to the
systemic spread of infection, protease inhibitors, and factor
XIII-dependent systems.  Hypersensitivity states include allergy and
atopy, allergic aspergillosis, immune complex disease, and
hypersensitivity to pancreatic extracts.  The presence or absence of
specific antigen components and the association of HL-A antigens are
also discussed.

