Welch-D-W.  Roberts-R-M.

Complex saccharide metabolism in cystic fibrosis fibroblasts.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  FIBROBLASTS: me.  MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDES: me.

AUTORADIOGRAPHY.  CELL-LINE.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CHONDROITIN-SULFATES: me.  DERMATAN-SULFATE: me.  FIBROBLASTS: an.
GLUCOSAMINE: me.  GLYCOSAMINOGLYCANS: ip.  HEPARITIN-SULFATE: me.
HUMAN.  HYALURONIC-ACID: me.  SKIN.  SULFATES: me.  TIME-FACTORS.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

There are several reports of secretory and other abnormalities
present in cultured fibroblasts from patients with cystic fibrosis
(CF). We have, therefore, investigated aspects of complex saccharide
synthesis and secretion by such cells compared with fibroblasts
derived from heterozygous (HZ) parents and from normal (N) children.
The main glycosaminoglycans produced by skin fibroblasts  during in
vitro culture were hyaluronic acid, heparan sulfates, and dermatan
sulfate-like materials. Using double-label experiments with D-[3H]-
or [14c]glucosamine and analyzing the products by ion exchange
chromatography, it was shown for five CF, two HZ, and four N lines
that these polysaccharides were secreted into the medium in
approximately similar proportions to each other. Moreover,
experiments in which three CF, nine HZ, and three N lines were grown
in log phase for up to 5 days in the presence of [35S]sulfate and
[3H]glucosamine indicate that, during such a period, CF fibroblasts
do not secrete complex carbohydrates at rates significantly different
from N or HZ cells. Neither do such cells shown an abnormal
intracellular accumulation of complex carbohydrates. The latter
observation was further confirmed by preparing whole cell
autoradiographs during growth of six CF, two HZ, and three N lines in
the presence of D-[3H]glucosamine and, subsequently, after addition
of unlabeled medium.

