di-SantAgnese-P-A.  Davis-P-B.

Research in cystic fibrosis (third of three parts).

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.

ALPHA-FETOPROTEINS: me.  ANIMAL.  CILIA: pp.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di, im, mi, pp.  ELECTROLYTES: me.
ENDOCRINE-GLANDS: pp.  FEMALE.  HETEROZYGOTE.  HUMAN.  INFECTION: im.
KALLIKREIN: me.  KININS: me.  MUCUS: se.  PEPTIDE-HYDROLASES: ai.
PREGNANCY.  PRENATAL-DIAGNOSIS.  PSEUDOMONAS-AERUGINOSA: ip.
RESPIRATORY-SYSTEM: mi.  REVIEW.  SALIVARY-GLANDS: me.  SODIUM: me.
STAPHYLOCOCCUS-AUREUS: ip.  TEARS:  me.  TRACHEA: pp.

Recent autonomic nervous system studies in cystic fibrosis are
outlined.  Miscellaneous observations regarding salivary and tear
glands, calcium, the kallikrein-kinin system, protease inhibitor,
alpha-fetoprotein, and endocrine glands are discussed.  Because more
than 90 per cent of patients with cystic fibrosis die of progressive
pulmonary involvement, complicated by infection with Staphylococcus
aureus or Pseudomonas aeruginosa (or both), the question of
immunologic deficit is frequently raised.  Extensive investigations
have shown the immune system in cystic fibrosis to be intact.
Studies regarding pulmonary ciliary clearance and bacteriology are
also outlined.  Despite extensive investigations, the basic defect of
cystic fibrosis is still unknown.  What then is the explanation of
the two defects in homozygotes that lead to most clinical
manifestations - the sweat electrolyte defect and the abnormality in
physiochemical behavior of mucous secretions?  The former is
satisfactorily explained by a sodium-reabsorption-inhibitory factor
present in sweat and saliva of patients.  As for the mucous-secretion
abnormality, the effect of the increasing calcium concentration in
decreasing the solubility of glycoproteins suggests that this
mechanism might be responsible for the precipitation and obstruction
of organ passages, which gives rise to most symptoms in cystic
fibrosis.  Although there is an excellent diagnostic test for
homozygotes (sweat test), one cannot rely on any of the present
biologic assays for determination of heterozygosity or antenatal
diagnosis.

