Morin-C-L.  van-Caillie-M.  Roy-C-C.  Lasalle-R.

Mucosal enterokinase activity in pancreatic insufficiency and celiac
disease.

CELIAC-DISEASE: en.  ENTEROPEPTIDASE: me.  INTESTINAL-MUCOSA: en.
PANCREATIC-DISEASES: en.  PEPTIDE-PEPTIDOHYDROLASES: me.

CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  COMPARATIVE-STUDY.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.
HUMAN.  INFANT.  SUCRASE: me.

Jejunal biopsy specimens were obtained from children with cystic
fibrosis (CF), celiac disease (CD), or congenital exocrine
pancreatic hypoplasia (CEPH) and from control subjects.  Sections
were examined histologically and homogenates were used for
measurement of enterokinase and sucrase activities.  This work was
undertaken because enterokinase is considered a brush border enzyme,
the release of which into the intestinal lumen is influenced by
pancreatic enzymes, and also because we have recently shown a small
bowel mucosal dysfunction in patients with CF.  As expected, sucrase
activity was reduce (p < .05) in children with CD as compared to the
other three groups.  On the other hand, enterokinase activity in
children with pancreatic insufficiency (CF and CEPH) was higher (p <
.05) than that of control subjects.  The present study has shown
that in patients with CF and CEPH, mucosal enterokinase activity was
increased as compared to control subjects.  It seems that the
pancreatic enzymes play a large role in the turnover of enzymes in
the brush border membrane and that the observed increase of mucosal
enterokinase activity is probably explained by a reduced degradation
in patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency.

