Adshead-P-C.  Martinez-J-R.  Kilburn-K-H.  Hess-R-A.

Ciliary inhibition and axonemal microtubule alterations in
freshwater mussels.

CILIA: de.  MICROTUBULES: de.  MUSSELS: ul.

ANIMAL.  BLOOD.  CILIA: ph.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  HETEROZYGOTE.
HOMOZYGOTE.  HUMAN.  MALE.  MICROSCOPY-ELECTRON.  MOVEMENT.
MUSSELS:  de, ph.  RATS.  RESERPINE: pd.  SALIVA: de.

A phenomenon associated with the genetic disease of cystic fibrosis
(CF) is the presence of a serum factor that stops or discoordinates
ciliary beating.  This effect has been demonstrated by exposing
freshwater mussel or oyster gill cilia, or rabbit tracheal cilia, to
sera from homozygous or heterozygous cystic fibrosis subjects.  Assay
reproducibility is unsatisfactory, however, and the mechanism of the
effect is not understood.  Nor do we know why there may be
considerable differences between the activity of tested heterozygotes
and of homozygotes.  Because the ciliary assay is capricious, there
is a need to understand how ciliary beating is disturbed or stopped.
Since microtubules are important in the mechanism of ciliary motion,
they could conceivably show alterations during the response to
inhibitory substances.  There has been no ultrastructural study,
however, of the effects of ciliary inhibition on the axonemal
components.  Therefore, this study was designed to examine ciliary
structure during the different stages of ciliary inhibition.  Rapid
microtubular disappearance and reappearance occurs in the terminal
cilia of the freshwater mussel Unio when exposure to CF serum causes
a shock-stop reaction, and return to water allows resumption of
normal ciliary beating.  In contrast, a slow-stop reaction causes
distortion of cilia, asynchronous beating, and ejection of cells from
the distal gill filament, but ciliary axonemal structure is
preserved.  Slow-stopped cilia do not resume their beating in water.
Saliva from reserpine-treated rats causes ciliary inhibition similar
to that induced by CF serum.

