Coburn-M-D.  Coburn-L-A.  Solomons-C-C.

Letter: Plasma arginine esterase activity in cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.  ESTERASES: bl.

ADULT.  ARGININE.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.
ELECTROPHORESIS-POLYACRYLAMIDE-GEL.  HUMAN.  PROTEINS: me.

We assayed the serum of a group of cystic fibrosis patients that
were on oral arginine therapy and that of a group of cystic
fibrosis patients that were not receiving this treatment for total
arginine esterase activity.  The untreated cystic fibrosis patients
have significantly lower serum arginine esterase activity than the
normal controls, the cystic fibrosis carriers, and the cystic
fibrosis patients receiving oral arginine therapy.  There is no
significant difference between the arginine esterase activity of
the normal controls and the cystic fibrosis carriers or the cystic
fibrosis patients treated with arginine. -  We have recently
observed differences in the arginine esterases in plasma of
controls and patients by electrofusing on polyacrylamide gels.
Six activity bands could be detected in plasma of controls, whereas
only five could be detected in plasma of patients.  Our work on the
deficiency of trypsin-like activity in mixed saliva of patients
with cystic fibrosis has been reproduced by another laboratory.
Coburn recently confirmed our work on deficiency of arginine
esterase in serum of patients with cystic fibrosis. At present, the
deficiency of arginine esterase in cystic fibrosis is a working
hypothesis to understand the basic defect. - The variations of pH
and sodium chloride content that I employed had been tested by me
in 6 patients both with and without a diagnosis of cystic fibrosis
and were found not to alter the level of arginine-esterase
activity.  The major differences between the two studies resulted
from the control subjects.  Dr. Rao neglects to mention the few
other laboratories that were unable to confirm his findings.

