Levison-H.  Godfrey-S.

Pulmonary aspects of cystic fibrosis.  pp.  3-24.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.  RESPIRATION.

ADOLESCENCE.  AIRWAY-RESISTANCE.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: th.
EXERTION.  FEMALE.  HELIUM.  HUMAN.  MALE.
MAXIMAL-EXPIRATORY-FLOW-RATE.  MAXIMAL-EXPIRATORY-FLOW-VOLUME-CURVES.
MONOGRAPH.  OXYGEN.  PHYSICAL-FITNESS.  PHYSICAL-THERAPY.
PLETHYSMOGRAPHY-WHOLE-BODY.  REVIEW.  SEX-FACTORS.
VENTILATION-PERFUSION-RATIO.

Defective mucociliary transport has been implicated in the
pathogenesis of the lung disease in cystic fibrosis, based on
several observations.  First, patients with the disease secrete more
mucus than normal subjects, as indicated by gland hypertrophy, and
frequently retain it in the lung.  Second, the mucus is said to have
altered biochemical and rheological properties; however, although the
physiochemical properties of mucus are altered in all lung diseases,
little histochemical or rheological difference has been found in
mucus from patients with CF and other hypersecretory conditions such
as chronic bronchitis and bronchiectasis.  Third, a factor in the
serum of CF patients inhibits normal ciliary activity in explain
glands of ciliated epithelium; and infection, which damages human
ciliated epithelium in culture, could further reduce mucociliary
transport.  Measurement of pulmonary function in cystic fibrosis,
physical fitness and response to exercise in cystic fibrosis, control
of breathing in patients with cystic fibrosis, regional lung function
in cystic fibrosis, and therapy of cystic fibrosis are discussed.

