Boat-T-F.  Cheng-P.

Mucous glycoproteins in cystic fibrosis.  pp.  108-21.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  GLYCOPROTEINS: me.  MUCUS: me.

ANIMAL.  CARBOHYDRATES: an.  CELLS-CULTURED.  HUMAN.  MONOGRAPH.
RABBITS.  REVIEW.  SULFURIC-ACIDS: me.  TRACHEA: me.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

Cystic fibrosis, the most common lethal genetic trait of Caucasians,
causes much of the chronic progressive lung disease in children and
young adults.  It is also responsible for intestinal obstruction at
birth (meconium ileus), pancreatic insufficiency with maldigestion
and failure to grow, and obstructive liver disease in this age group.
Furthermore, obliteration of the vas deferens causes aspermia and
infertility in most males with CF.  Individuals with CF secrete sweat
which contains excessive amounts of chloride and sodium.  Diagnostic
criteria include detection of elevated chloride levels in sweat of
individuals with typical pulmonary, gastrointestinal, or genital
manifestations of the disease.  There are several, well documented
alterations in the mucous secretions of individuals with cystic
fibrosis, any of which alone or in combination, may interfere with
mucous clearance from the lung or from passageways of other organs.
It seems clear that additional studies to define basic aspects of
normal mucous biochemistry, physiology and pharmacology must precede
or parallel studies of CF mucous secretions if data pertinent to CF
pathophysiology are to be generated.  Particular needs include an
understanding of the chemical determinants of physical and
rheological properties of these secretions, and elucidation of
mechanisms for control of sulfated glycoprotein biosynthesis.

