Conover-J-H.  Conod-E-J.  Gaerlan-P-F.  Bogart-B-I.

Calcium flux and cystic fibrosis [letter].

CALCIUM: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.

A-23187: pd.  ANIMAL.  BIOLOGICAL-ASSAY.
CELL-MEMBRANE-PERMEABILITY:  de.  CILIA: ph.  HUMAN.  RABBITS.
TISSUE-CULTURE.  TRACHEA: pa.

In an effort to determine whether increased permeability to calcium
ions could explain the cystic fibrosis-serum ciliary dyskensia factor
response in the tracheal test system, we selectively increased the
membrane permeability of the tracheal epithelium to calcium ions by
adding calcium ionophore A23187 to the tracheal culture medium.
These studies determined that calcium ionophore A23187 in culture
medium produced a change in mucociliary function in the tracheal test
system indistinguishable from that promoted by C.F. sera.  These
investigations, which are now being extended to include the
ultrastructural alterations induced in the epithelium of the rabbit
tracheal bioassay system, point to an important role for calcium as a
cofactor in the production of the C.D.F. response generated by the
C.F sera.  The C.F. serum substance seems to act at the
cellular-membrane level, promoting membrane-permeability changes (at
least with respect to calcium) in the rabbit tracheal test system.
Such a mechanism would not necessarily result in a net physiological
imbalance of calcium in the rabbit tracheal system but only local
changes in calcium concentration that would subsequently alter
secretion and microtubular function.  Since C.F. serum, like sweat
and saliva from these same patients, can promote ionic fluxes,
perhaps there is a common factor in all these body-fluids which is
related to the basic defect in C.F.  It is tempting to speculate that
such a factor produces a membrane-associated phenomenon that may be
generally representative of the in-vivo C.F. disorder and as such may
reflect the nature of the cellular and glandular abnormalities of the
disease.

