Biggar-W-D.  Holmes-B.  Good-R-A.

Letter: Selective inhibition of phagocytic activity of rabbit
alveolar macrophages by cystic fibrosis serum.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  MACROPHAGES: im.  PHAGOCYTOSIS.
PULMONARY-ALVEOLI: cy.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im.  HUMAN.  PSEUDOMONAS-AERUGINOSA.  RABBITS.

As far as rabbit alveolar macrophages are concerned,
the concentration of homozygous CF serum used in our experiments
was even greater than the fourfold concentration which Biggar and
associates state was required for normal phagocytosis.  Increasing
dilutions of homozygous CF sera with either Hanks balanced salt
solution or normal human serum, thus decreasing its concentration,
increased the capacity of the rabbit alveolar macrophages to
phagocytize and kill Pseudomonas aeruginosa.  Increasing
concentrations had just the opposite effect.  Suspension of rabbit
alveolar macrophages in human serum reduced their phagocytic
activity, but activity was reduced more by human CF serum than by
human normal serum.  This is not unexpected because high human
serum concentrations are likely to be toxic to rabbit alveolar
macrophages.  Because the inhibition of phagocytosis was absent
when homozygous CF serum more than 24 hours old or previously
heated or frozen was used and because of our observations that
dilution increased macrophage phagocytic ability, we feel our data
demonstrate the presence of a labile inhibitor rather than a
deficiency.  Since it is well known that CF patients have normal
or elevated concentrations of immunoglobulins including IgA in
their sera and pulmonary secretions and respond to infection, and
IgA has not been shown to be essential for alveolar macrophage
phagocytosis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, we cannot agree that this
inhibition is due to an IgA deficiency.  We also note that some of
the sera used in the experiments of Biggar and associates were
stored at -70 degrees C.  Perhaps this may account for the
difference in results.

