Childs-B.

Genetic screening.

HEREDITARY-DISEASES: pc.  INFANT-NEWBORN-DISEASES: di.
MASS-SCREENING.  PRENATAL-DIAGNOSIS.

ADENOSINE-DEAMINASE: df.  ADULT.  LIPOIDOSIS: pc.  AMNIOCENTESIS.
CHILD.  CHROMOSOME-ABNORMALITIES: pc.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS.
DOWNS-SYNDROME: pc.  HEMOGLOBINOPATHIES: pc.  HUMAN.
HYPERLIPIDEMIA:  pc.  INFANT-NEWBORN.  METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: pc.
MUSCULAR-DYSTROPHY: pc.  PHENYLKETONURIA: pc.  POLYMORPHISM-GENETICS.
REVIEW.  THALASSEMIA: pc.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

The recent proliferation of genetic knowledge has been accompanied by
speculation about its uses in the pursuit of both medical and social
goals, as well as by fear and concern about possible misuses.  These
speculations have appeared in the proceedings of numerous symposia
and in many books and papers.  A review of this literature reveals
that the nonmedical participants in this debate were preoccupied with
those aims of genetics that might benefit (or threaten) society,
while the physicians were concerned with the accomplishment of
standard medical missions in which social aims figure only
incidentally.  These missions are diagnosis, management, and
prevention of disease.  The specific uses of genetic knowledge most
frequently mentioned were advances in the taxonomy of disease that
lead to improvements in diagnosis and treatment of individual
patients and their relatives, genetic counseling, and genetic
screening.  The latter two, particularly screening, are preventive
and represent the interface between medical genetics, especially
population genetics, and society.  This review focuses on
developments in genetic screening, defined as the search in a
population, generally for medical reasons, for individuals possessing
particular genotypes.

