Wallwork-J-C.  Brenchley-P.  McCarthy-J.  Allan-J-D.  Moss-D.
Ward-A-M.  Holzel-A.  Williams-R-F.  McFarlane-H.

Some aspects of immunity in patients with cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  ALLERGENS.  ANTIGEN-ANTIBODY-REACTIONS.  CHILD.
CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  COMPLEMENT-3.  FEMALE.  FOOD-HYPERSENSITIVITY.
GEL-DIFFUSION-TESTS.  HUMAN.  IGA: an.  IGG: an.  IGM: an.
IMMUNOGLOBULINS-J-CHAIN.  INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.
INTESTINAL-ABSORPTION.  LYMPHOCYTE-TRANSFORMATION.  MALE.
NUTRITION-DISORDERS.  LECTINS.  LECTINS.  PREALBUMIN: an.
PRECIPITIN-TESTS.  PROTEINS: im.  RETICULIN: im.  SPUTUM: im.
TRANSFERRIN: an.

Various aspects of the immune status were examined in patients with
cystic fibrosis (CF) and the following observations were made.  Ten
per cent of the CF patients had elevated or reduced serum IgG
concentrations and there seems to be a transient low serum IgA
concentration in the same number.  Serum IgM concentrations were
normal in CF patients.  Normal levels of the three serum
immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA and IgM) were detected in the siblings and
heterozygotes.  Serum IgE concentrations were elevated in 32% of
patients with CF but normal concentrations were detected in
heterozygotes and siblings.  Precipitating antibodies to various
antigens and allergens were detected in the sputum of most patients
with CF, but their sera contained lower or undetectable titres of
these antibodies.  The precipitating antibodies in CF sputum to
bacteria, to agar, to seminal fluid, to urine and to human serum may
be related to a common antigenic determinant of the glycoproteins
present in all these fluids.  The total protein concentration in the
sputum of CF patients seemed to reflect the extent of lung damage.
The third component (C3) of serum complement concentration was
normal, or moderately elevated in all CF patients tested.  Serum
transferrin concentrations were normal in CF patients but their
prealbumin levels were depressed, suggesting marginal
undernutrition.  Peripheral blood lymphocyte transformations with
PHA and PWM appear to be normal in CF patients.

