Roy-C-C.  Delage-G.  Fontaine-A.  Robitaille-L.  Chartrand-L.
Weber-A.  Morin-C-L.

The fecal microflora and bile acids in children with cystic fibrosis.

ANTIBIOTICS: tu.  BILE-ACIDS-AND-SALTS: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me, mi.
FECES: an, mi.

CARBENICILLIN: tu.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CLOXACILLIN: tu.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dt.  DRUG-THERAPY-COMBINATION.  GENTAMICINS: tu.
GRAM-NEGATIVE-AEROBIC-BACTERIA.  HUMAN.  INFANT.

Fecal fat, bile acids, and the rectal microflora were studied in
seven control children and in three groups of patients with cystic
fibrosis (CF).  Seven were off antibiotics, ten on oral cloxacillin,
and six on i.v. triple therapy (cloxacillin, gentamycin, and
carbenicillin) for at least 2 weeks.  Controls had lower
concentrations (milligrams per gram dry stool) of both fat (P <
0.005) and vile acids (P < 0.025) than CF children off antibiotics.
Antibiotics had little or no effect on fat but led to a striking
decrease (P < 0.01) of bile acids in the triple therapy group.
Concomitantly, there was reduced deconjugation of bile acids (P <
0.01) and formation of secondary bile acids (P < 0.005).  This was
associated with a 5-fold increase in the percentage of bile acids
found in the aqueous phase of stools and with a marked reduction (P
< 0.001) of the anaerobic flora (log counts per gram wet stool) in
children on triple therapy (4.3 plus or minus 1.9) when compared to
controls (9.8 plus or minus 0.1), CF off antibiotics (9.1 plus or
minus 0.1) and CF on cloxacillin (9.6 plus or minus 0.2).  The close
relationship between the anaerobic flora, the extent of bile acid
microbial transformation, and fecal bile acid concentrations suggest
that reduction of the anaerobic flora decreases adsorption of bile
acids to dietary residues and microbes, favors bile acid absorption,
and leads to a decreased fecal loss of bile acids in CF.

