Benke-P-J.

Biochemistry of cystic fibrosis: an overview.  pp.  157-64.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.

CELLS-CULTURED.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  GLYCOPROTEINS: me.  IGG.
MONOGRAPH.  MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDES: me.  SODIUM: me.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-NON-P-H-S.

Cystic fibrosis has been a difficult problem to solve.  One amino
acid is not found in elevated concentrations in the urine, one
abnormal sugar or polysaccharide is not found in secretions of the
bronchial tree which causes pulmonary damage, and a unique material
which inhibits sodium transport has not yet been identified in sweat.
Instead of viewing the current state of CF research as chaotic,
perhaps we should say in a positive way that the diversity of ideas
stimulates thinking, and in the process of sorting out the primary
defect, a wide spectrum of pathophysiologic changes will be
recognized.  Recently a positive-charged polypeptide associated with
immunoglobulin G has been identified which may be responsible for the
ciliary dyskinesis effect of CF serum.  This material should
demonstrate the same properties when bound to immunoglobulin G from
control sera.  It would be interesting if it were identical with the
basic protein recently found only in the serum and IgG fraction of CF
patients and carriers.  Further work may identify how the polypeptide
affects cell membrane surfaces, and whether a defective peptidase,
perhaps an arginine esterase, fails to break down the polypeptide.  A
unifying hypothesis could then emerge and tie biochemical and
physiological findings together.

