Bearn-A-G.

The expression of inherited metabolic disease in cultured cells.

CELLS-CULTURED.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.
METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS:  me.

HUMAN.  LIPOCHONDRODYSTROPHY: me.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-NON-P-H-S.

Since 1900 improvements in general hygiene, and the development of
antibiotic therapy have enabled many of the epidemic infectious
diseases, particularly those of infancy and early childhood,
increasingly to be controlled.  In contrast, the morbidity and
mortality of diseases of genetic origin have been little affected.
The rational use of cell culture as an investigative technique in
inherited metabolic disease is rooted in the simple biologic truth
that, since a full complement of chromosomes is present in all
somatic cells, it should be possible to detect the specific
biochemical consequences of gene activity in cultured fibroblasts
unless, during the process of differentiation, genes are irreversibly
inactivated.  The usefulness of tissue culture in investigating
inherited metabolic disease does not rest with the biochemical
identification of the primary defect.  The cells in culture provide a
model system of the disease, which can be used to test the possible
effectiveness of therapeutic agents.  Tissue culture techniques
indicated that the cells derived from patients with cystic fibrosis
showed metachromasia.  Although the isolation and characterization of
cystic fibrosis from cystic fibrosis serum has not been accomplished,
a number of properties have been described.

