Alderson-P-O.  Secker-Walker-R-H.  Stominger-D-B.  Markham-J.
Hill-R-L.

Pulmonary deposition of aerosols in children with cystic fibrosis.

AEROSOLS.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dt.  LUNG-DISEASES: dt.
RESPIRATORY-THERAPY.

INFANT.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CHILD.  ADOLESCENCE.  HUMAN.  MALE.
FEMALE.  AEROSOLS: ad.  ULTRASONICS.  INDIUM.  TECHNETIUM.
RADIOISOTOPE-DILUTION-TECHNIC.  SCINTILLATION-COUNTING.
RADIONUCLIDE-IMAGING.  COMPUTERS.  XENON.  RADIOISOTOPES.
RESPIRATION.  AGE-FACTORS.  BODY-WEIGHT.

The efficiency of delivery of an aerosol to 22 children with cystic
fibrosis, aged 8 months to 17 years, was investigated with the use
a standard ultrasonic nebulizer.  The study was designed to simulate
clinical conditions as closely as possible.  Retention of the
aerosol was monitored with a scintillation camera interfaced to a
small digital computer.  The children also had ventilation studies
with xenon-133, which allowed comparison of the distribution of
aerosol with regional ventilation.  The aerosol was visualized
within the lungs of all 22 patients.  Between 0.8 and 6.5 per cent
of the initial activity was deposited in the lungs, representing an
average of 0.27 ml. per therapy session or 0.0131 ml. per kilogram
of body weight.  There was a positive correlation (r = 0.89; p <
0.01) between increasing age and greater pulmonary deposition of the
aerosol.  There was decreased aerosol entry to regions which were
poorly ventilated.  The efficiency of aerosol deposition is variable
in children with cystic fibrosis, depending primarily on the age of
the patient, whereas its distribution within their lungs is related
to regional variations in the severity of the pulmonary disease.

