Milne-M-D.

Hereditary disorders of intestinal transport.

INTESTINAL-ABSORPTION.  MALABSORPTION-SYNDROMES: me.

ABETALIPOPROTEINEMIA: me.  ACRODERMATITIS: me.
AMINO-ACID-METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: me.  AMINO-ACIDS: me.
AMYLASES:  me.  AMYLOIDOSIS: me.
CARBOHYDRATE-METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: me.  COPPER: me.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  CYSTINURIA: me.  DIARRHEA: me.
FANCONI-SYNDROME: me.  FATS: me.  FOLIC-ACID: me.
FRUCTOSE-INTOLERANCE: me.  GLUCOSIDASES: me.  HARTNUP-DISEASE: me.
HUMAN.  LACTOSE-INTOLERANCE: me.  MAGNESIUM: me.
MALABSORPTION-SYNDROMES: fg.  MONOSACCHARIDES: me.  PANCREATITIS: me.
PHENYLKETONURIA: me.  RICKETS: me.  VITAMIN-B-12: me.

Hereditary abnormalities of intestinal transport are rare conditions
but are of disproportionate importance because of the information
they give regarding the mechanisms of intestinal absorption in man.
The main disability is usually diarrhoea, but there may be
abnormalities from lack of absorption of an essential nutrient or
occasionally from absorption of compounds in excess due to failure
of a normal control mechanism.  These diseases are experiments of
nature which cannot be exactly simulated in the laboratory animal,
and thus may on occasions give information unobtainable from other
sources.  Most often, however, they confirm that the mechanisms of
absorption studied in detail in smaller mammals are probably
applicable to man.  In some of these diseases there is an associated
defect of transport in the proximal renal tubules as well as in the
gut.  They furnish evidence, therefore, that transport processes are
closely related in the gut and in the kidney, or at least that an
important step in transport is identical at the two sites.  Such
disorders include disorders of carbohydrate absorption, hereditary
defects of amino acid absorption, hereditary defects in the
absorption of fat, hereditary disorders of the intestinal absorption
of electrolytes, and hereditary defects of vitamin B12 absorption.

