Davis-P-B.  Braunstein-M.  Jay-C.

Decreased adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate response to isoproterenol in
cystic fibrosis leukocytes.

ADENOSINE-CYCLIC-MONOPHOSPHATE: bl.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.
ISOPROTERENOL: pd.  LEUKOCYTES: me.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  ANTIBIOTICS.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  DIGOXIN.
FEMALE.  GRANULOCYTES: me.  HETEROZYGOTE.  HOMOZYGOTE.  HUMAN.
LEUKOCYTES: de.  MALE.  MIDDLE-AGE.  PANCREATIC-EXTRACTS.
PROSTAGLANDINS-E: pd.  RECEPTORS-ADRENERGIC-BETA: ph.

Leukocyte preparations from cystic fibrosis (CF) patients produced
markedly less adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate (cAMP) in response to
isoproterenol than normal cells.  Both stimulation ratio and net
isoproterenol-stimulated accumulation of cAMP were significantly (P
< 0.001) lower in mixed leukocyte preparations from 20 CF patients
(29 trials) compared to 21 normal subjects (49 trials).  There was
no significant correlation of results with clinical score, and no
differences in the CF group attributable to medications or presence
of pancreatic insufficiency.  CF heterozygotes had mean stimulation
ratio and mean net isoproterenol-stimulated cAMP intermediate
betweem normal and CF.  There were no statistically significant
differences among normal subjects, CF patients, and CF heterozygotes
in basal cAMP or prostaglandin E1-stimulated cAMP.  Purified
mononuclear cells from five normal persons and seven CF homozygotes
had the same basal and prostaglandin E1-stimulated cAMP, but
isoproterenol-stimulated cAMP was markedly depressed (P < 0.01) in
the CF cells.  Granulocytes from six normal persons and nine CF
patients also had the same basal and prostaglandin E1-stimulated
cAMP, but isoproterenol-stimulated cAMP was decreased (P < 0.05) in
the CF samples.  These results clearly demonstrate a difference
between normal and CF leukocytes in cAMP response to beta-adrenergic
stimulation.  The diminised cAMP response to beta-adrenergic
stimulation in CF is probably related to the presence of a CF gene,
and may interact with other genetic abnormalities to produce the
clinical syndrome of CF.

