Craig-J-M.

The pathology of infertility.

INFERTILITY-FEMALE: pa.  INFERTILITY-MALE: pa.

ADNEXITIS: co.  CHROMOSOME-ABNORMALITIES: pa.  CRYPTORCHISM: pa.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  DIABETES-MELLITUS: co.  ENDOCRINE-DISEASES: co.
ENDOMETRIOSIS: co.  FEMALE.  GENITAL-DISEASES-FEMALE: co.  HUMAN.
IATROGENIC-DISEASE.  INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.
KLINEFELTERS-SYNDROME:  pa.  MALE.  METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: co.
MYOCLONUS: co.  ORCHITIS:  pa, et.  PREGNANCY.  REVIEW.
SALPINGITIS: pa.  SCLEROSIS.  SEMINIFEROUS-TUBULES: pa.
SPERM-MATURATION.  INFERTILITY-FEMALE: et.  INFERTILITY-MALE: et, fg.
UTERINE-DISEASES: co.  VARICOCELE: co, pa.

In most series of infertility patients, approximately 40 to 60
percent have no discernible cause for infertility.  No wonder that
those working with this condition tend to seize upon any demonstrable
tissue abnormality as related to the infertility.  The use of
fallible diagnostic tools may lead to misdiagnosis and inappropriate
treatment.  In studies of the accuracy of dye injections to
demonstrate tubal patency by roentgenogram the large errors
introduced by these methods were emphasized.  Between 30 to 40
percent of tubes found blocked by using a single dye examination and
using the criterion of "filling but not spilling" into the peritoneal
cavity, or with apparent obstruction at the uterotubal junction, were
subsequently found to be patent.  Similar data were offered by
others.  Lesions with less obvious and demonstrable causal
relationship to infertility, such as pelvic adhesions and
endometriosis, are more difficult to judge as to their etiologic
relation.  These are assessed in discussions of male and female
infertility.

