David-S.

Letter: Comment on outpatient intravenous therapy.

AMBULATORY-CARE.  DRUG-THERAPY.  INJECTIONS-INTRAVENOUS.
PEDIATRICS.

ADOLESCENCE.  ANTIBIOTICS: ad, tu.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dt.  FOLLOW-UP-STUDIES.  HEMOPHILIA: dt.  HUMAN.
INFANT.  PATIENT-COMPLIANCE.  PUBLIC-HEALTH-NURSING.
RESPIRATORY-TRACT-INFECTIONS: dt.

There has been a recent trend to treating more and more pediatric
patients with chronic diseases on an ambulatory basis.  This is true
of both hemophilia and cystic fibrosis.  Despite their success in
keeping slightly more than two thirds of their patients out of the
hospital, I think that they might be more successful in the future if
the following points are considered.  First, many of those initially
selected for intravenous medications due to their nonresponsiveness
to oral therapy and again later considered failures of intravenous
treatment might actually be noncompliers.  My second point concerns
the lack of follow-up within the patient's home.  It would seem to me
that this would be an ideal place for a public health nurse to check
on the patient's condition, ensure that the procedure was being
properly followed under actual field conditions, and that the correct
amount of medicine has been utilized. - Dr. David's letter regarding
potential problems of noncompliance and home follow-up in the use of
outpatient intravenous antibiotics points out the need for this type
of therapy to be instituted only in those centers in which these
facets can be well controlled. Public health nurses are utilized by
some centers to supervise and assist in the home management of cystic
fibrosis with good success.

