Lober-C-W.

Letter: Nutritional supplementation in cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dh.

ADOLESCENCE.  CHILD.  HUMAN.

Duke Medical Center and the National Institutes of Health have
analyzed the maximum achieved heights and weights of 60 persons with
CF over 20 years old.  Both parameters were markedly skewed toward
the lower percentile bands.  No significant differences were found
among patients whose condition was diagnosed early in life, in those
with more severe pulmonary or gastrointestinal impairment, or among
those in whom pancreatic enzyme and/or nutritional supplementation
had been employed.  Nutritional supplementation has yet to be proven
a significant long-term influence on the morbidity or mortality of
CF. - Lober reported data on 60 persons with cystic fibrosis (CF)
over 20 years of age, while our population of 63 individuals
contained only three who were over 15 years old.  The median age of
death in patients with CF is 12 years.  It is not realistic to
compare patients who have survived to adulthood with a younger
group.  He did not state the type of nutritional supplementation
that was of no significance among his patients.  Our experience with
nutritional supplements other than the amino acid-glucose polymer
mixture has been equally poor.  Our data on growth rates were
similar to those of Lober in that both heights and weights were
skewed toward the lower end, and height was less affected than
weight.  Increased rates of linear growth were observed in eight of
13 children under 12 years of age at the time the dietary supplement
was begun.  Patients who continue to take the nutritional supplement
have not shown further deterioration in pulmonary status.

