Andorsky-M.  Finley-A.  Davidson-M.

Pediatric gastroenterology 1/1/69-12/31/75: a review.  Part I.
Hollow viscera and the pancreas.

GASTROINTESTINAL-DISEASES.

ABDOMINAL-WALL: ab.  ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  ANIMAL.  ANUS: ab.
CELIAC-DISEASE: di.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  COLONIC-DISEASES: co.
CONSTIPATION.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  DIARRHEA-INFANTILE: mi.
ENTEROCOLITIS-PSEUDOMEMBRANOUS.  ESOPHAGEAL-ATRESIA: su.
FOOD-HYPERSENSITIVITY: di.  HEMORRHAGE-GASTROINTESTINAL: et.
HERNIA-HIATAL: su.  HUMAN.  INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.
INTESTINAL-POLYPS.  LYMPHANGIECTASIS-INTESTINAL.
MALABSORPTION-SYNDROMES.  MEGACOLON: et.  PANCREATITIS: et.
PARENTERAL-HYPERALIMENTATION: ae.  PEPTIC-ULCER.
PYLORIC-STENOSIS: su.  RECTUM: ab.  REVIEW.

Cumulative survival in cystic fibrosis (CF) for three successive
5-year periods between 1952 and 1967 is 35%, 64%, and 77%,
respectively.  Operative mortality in meconium ileus is not reduced
to 25% from 70%.  N-Acetylcysteine effectively cleanses the bowel of
tenacious meconium plugs when directly injected during laparotomy.
However, Mucomist enema alone generally does not suffice.  Selected
cases have been treated successfully with hyperosmolar Gastrograffin
enema.  Several screening tests, based on the increased albumin
concentrations present in the meconium, are available for CF.  The
Boehringer-Mannheim test strip is favored, and yielded no false
positives in 69,000 tests of meconium.  However, 4 of 60 neonates
who subsequently proved to have CF had false negative tests.  A
pathognomonic elevation of sodium and chloride concentrations in the
sweat collected by pilocarpine iontophoresis remains the definitive
diagnostic test.  Bile acid malabsorption occurs in CF but not in
celiac disease.  The authors postulate that the presence of
maldigested materials or the absence of pancreatic enzymes
interferes with bile acid absorption.  The defect disappears with
pancreatic extracts.  Substitution of medium-chain triglycerides for
dietary long-chain fatty acids reduces steatorrhea in CF.  However,
the positive effect of MCT on weight gain is transitory.  Growth
retardation correlates better with the degree of pulmonary disease
than with pancreatic insufficiency.

