Loening-Baucke-V-A.  Mischler-E.  Myers-M-G.

A placebo-controlled trial of cephalexin therapy in the ambulatory
management of patients with cystic fibrosis.

AMBULATORY-CARE.  CEPHALEXIN: tu.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.

ADMINISTRATION-ORAL.  ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.
BACTERIAL-INFECTIONS: dt, et.  CEPHALEXIN: ad, ae.  CHILD.
CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CLINICAL-TRIALS.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.  FEMALE.
HUMAN.  INFANT.  MALE.  PLACEBOS.  RESPIRATORY-TRACT-INFECTIONS: dt.
SPUTUM: mi.

The effects of oral administration of cephalexin were evaluated in a
double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study in 17 patients
with mild to moderate pulmonary disease due to cystic fibrosis.  For
two years, four-month periods with cephalexin were alternated with
four-month placebo periods.  Thus, patients served as their own
control subjects.  Fungal vulvovaginitis occurred in two patients
during cephalexin therapy.  During the 2 years of study, the rate of
colonization with mucoid strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa increased
and disease severity deteriorated in patients initially colonized
with P. aeruginosa.  Short-term courses of sputum culture-specific
antibiotics improved the course of some patients with mild to
moderate pulmonary disease due to cystic fibrosis.  Treatment with
cephalexin decreased the frequency of respiratory illnesses,
respiratory illnesses requiring antibiotics, and hospitalizations
for respiratory illnesses in patients initially colonized with
Staphylococcus aureus and/or Haemophilus influenzae, and also
reduced colonization with these organisms.  Improved weight gain in
16 of 17 patients was associated with periods of cephalexin therapy.
Pulmonary function tests remained stable or improved in 10 or 14
patients.  Disease severity improved in patients not colonized with
P. aeruginosa.

