Epstein-N-B.  Rosenstein-S-N.  Kutscher-A-H.  Zegarelli-E-V.
Denning-C.

Standardization of a new minor salivary gland collecting procedure
for the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  SALIVA: se.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.
MALE.  SALIVARY-GLANDS: se, pp.  SECRETORY-RATE.

The objective of this investigation was to further refine a technique
developed to serve as a new test procedure for the diagnosis of
cystic fibrosis of the pancreas utilizing a more quantitative
approach for measuring, in a standard fashion, the volume of
secretion of the minor salivary glands of the lower labial mucosa,
which can be collected over a fixed period of time.  It was also
hoped that such standardization would facilitate the more accurate
study of all aspects of study of minor salivary gland secretion
collected in this fashion.  From the findings, it is obvious that
less minor salivary gland secretion was collected from cystic
fibrosis patients than from normal control subjects, using a
capillary tube test.  This may be due, in part, to an increased
viscosity of minor-salivary-gland saliva in cystic fibrosis.
Unfortunately, viscosity studies were beyond the scope of this
investigation.  The results indicate that the relative differences
between the volume of minor salivary secretion collected at a
standard test site and that collected over the total lower labial
mucosa are similar.  The volumetric differences in minor salivary
secretion have again been found to be distinctive enough to suggest
that studies be continued in this area to further refine a diagnostic
test procedure for cystic fibrosis of the pancreas.  At the present
time, studies are in progress to measure the volume of minor salivary
secretion at a standard test site employing an electronic technique.
It is hoped that this approach may permit the elimination of
viscosity as a variable.

