Azizi-F.  Bentley-D.  Vagenakis-A.  Portnay-G.  Bush-J-E.
Shwachman-H.  Ingbar-S-H.  Braverman-L-E.

Abnormal thyroid function and response to iodides in patients with
cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dt.  IODIDES: tu.  THYROID-GLAND: pp.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl, co.  FEMALE.
GOITER: et.  HUMAN.  HYPOTHYROIDISM: et.  MALE.
RESPIRATORY-TRACT-INFECTIONS: pc.  SULFISOXAZOLE: tu.
THYROTROPIN:  bl.  THYROXINE: bl.  TRIIODOTHYRONINE: bl.

It has been suggested that the development of goiter and
hypothyroidism in patients receiving chronic iodide therapy indicates
that they have underlying thyroid disease.  In 1971, Dolan and
Gibson, in a retrospective study, reviewed the records of children
with cystic fibrosis receiving chronic expectorant therapy with
iodide and reported that approximately 85 percent had goiter and 15
percent suggestive clinical findings of hypothyroidism.  This study,
together with the fact that the thyroid, like lung and pancreas, is
of endodermal origin raised the possibility that patients with cystic
fibrosis might have an underlying defect in thyroid function.  As
thyroid function in patients with cystic fibrosis has not been
evaluated in a systematic fashion, the present study was undertaken.
In it, we have evaluated basal thyroid function in a large group of
patients with cystic fibrosis and have, in addition, observed the
effects of chronic iodide administration.  The present study strongly
suggests that there often occurs in patients with cystic fibrosis
some derangement in thyroid hormone economy.  The frequency with
which iodides increased serum thyrotropin, decreased serum thyroxine
concentration, and induced goiter, with or without hypothyroidism, in
patients with cystic fibrosis, points strongly to the presence of an
intrinsic abnormality of the thyroid in this disease.  The nature of
such abnormality remains unclear.

