Weber-A-M.  Roy-C-C.  Chartrand-L.  Lepage-G.  Dufour-O-L.
Morin-C-L.  Lasalle-R.

Relationship between bile acid malabsorption and pancreatic
insufficiency in cystic fibrosis.

BILE-ACIDS-AND-SALTS: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.
MALABSORPTION-SYNDROMES: me.  PANCREAS: pp.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  BICARBONATES: pd.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
COMPARATIVE-STUDY.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co, me.  FECES: an.  HUMAN.
INFANT.  INTESTINAL-ABSORPTION: de.  LIPIDS: me.  REVIEW.
TRIGLYCERIDES: pd.

Bile acid loss (mg/m2 24h) in the stools of 43 cystic fibrosis (CF)
children with pancreatic insufficiency was 751-1 +/- 48-3, while that
of six without clinical evidence of pancreatic disease (133-4 +/- 15-
9) did not differ from values in 25 controls (109-8 +/- 9-8). There
was a good correlation between the degree of bile acid (BA) and fat
sequestration. Concomitant changes in bile acid and fat loss were
observed in the one group of six patients studied on and off
pancreatic enzymes as well as in a second group of seven children
treated with pancreatic supplements and maintained on a normal diet
followed by a low fat diet supplemented with medium chain
triglycerides. Administration of NA bicarbonate led to a significant
decrease in fat loss (15-8 +/- 2-7 leads to 10-3 +/- 1-9) without any
simultaneous change in bile acid excretion (533-1 +/- 58-3 leads to
500-4 +/- 58-6). Qualitative bile acid patterns in controls, in
infants after an ileal resection, and in patients with CF or with
coeliac disease showed that the percentage of primary BA followed
closely the total amount excreted except in situations where
antibiotics were administered. The exact mechanism for the increased
loss of BA in CF is unknown. It is found in all age groups and is
related to the presence and degree of pancreatic insufficiency. The
possibility that unhydrolysed triglycerides may interfere with the
intestinal absorption of bile acid needs further confirmation.

