Lykkegaard-E.  Jacobsen-L.

Serum protein paper electrophoresis in cystic fibrosis correlated
with bacteriological lung findings.

BLOOD-PROTEINS: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  LUNG: mi.

ADOLESCENCE.  BLOOD-PROTEIN-ELECTROPHORESIS.  CHILD.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: mi.  ELECTROPHORESIS-PAPER.  HUMAN.
PSEUDOMONAS-AERUGINOSA: ip.  STAPHYLOCOCCUS: ip.

Serum proteins have been studied by means of paper electrophoresis
in 88 patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), and correlated with
bacteriological lung findings.  An increase of all serum globulin
fractions in CF patients was found, whereas albumin and
albumin/globulin ratio were decreased.  The changes in all serum
protein fractions were significantly greater in patients with
constant Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in the lungs than in
patients without this constant infection (p < 0.005), whereas
patients with intermittent pseudomonas infection did not have more
severe changes than patients without pseudomonas infection.  The
changes in gamma-globulin and total globulin were significantly
greater in patients with frequent Staphylococcus aureus infections
than in patients with rare Staphylococcus aureus infections (p <
0.005 and p < 0.05, respectively).  As regards the other serum
protein fractions, no significant differences between patients with
frequent and rare staphylococcus infections were found.  Judged by
simple scoring systems, the lung disease of patients with constant
pseudomonas infection was significantly more progressed clinically
and radiologically than that of patients without constant
pseudomonas infection (p < 0.00005), whereas no significant
differences were found between the other patient groups.

