Oppenheimer-E-H.  Esterly-J-R.

Pathology of cystic fibrosis review of the literature and comparison
with 146 autopsied cases.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pa.

AUTOPSY.  CARDIOVASCULAR-SYSTEM: pa.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  EAR: pa.
GALLBLADDER: pa.  GENITALIA-FEMALE: pa.  GENITALIA-MALE: pa.  HUMAN.
INTESTINES: pa.  KIDNEY: pa.  LIVER: pa.  LUNG: pa.
MALABSORPTION-SYNDROMES: et, pa.  NOSE: pa.  PANCREAS: pa.
PHARYNX:  pa.  SWEAT-GLANDS: pa.

This review of pathologic findings in cystic fibrosis includes a
survey of morphologic changes from the original descriptions of CF
and the numerous subsequent reports, and an analysis of 146 cases
autopsied at the Johns Hopkins Hospital and Billings Hospital.
Achylia occurs in 85 to 90% of patients.  Approximately 1 of 7
patients with CF presents with meconium ileus.  In 1962 we described
gallbladder abnormalities in 24 of 72 cases of CF (33%).  In
Anderson's original description of CF, hemosiderosis was present in
nearly every liver, and fatty infiltration was a frequent finding.
The respiratory tract is invariably involved in CF.  The heart has
never been considered a primary target organ in CF.  Bodian described
a higher incidence of nephrocalcinosis in CF than in routine
pediatric autopsies (31% compared to 11%).  With the increased
longevity of patients with CF male sterility has become a recognized
complication.  Increased electrolyte concentrations in sweat are the
most diagnostic manifestation of CF, although an occasional patient
has escaped this defect.  Nasal polyps are frequent and often
recurrent problems in patients with CF.  Malabsorption due to
pancreatic exocrine deficiency was originally described as the main
manifestation of CF.  The autopsy diagnosis of CF is usually based on
a combination of lesions rather than on the changes in a single
organ.

