Clegg-K-M.

Nitrogen balance trials with cystic fibrosis patients.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  NITROGEN: me.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  DIETARY-PROTEINS: ad.
FEMALE.  HUMAN.  HYDROLYSIS.  MALE.  PANCREATIC-EXTRACTS: ad.

Preliminary nitrogen balance trials have been carried out with six
patients known to have pancreatic insufficiency to investigate the
utilisation of protein from a general diet; protein from a general
diet plus exogenous pancreatic extract; and pre-digested protein,
comprising 85% of dietary nitrogen intake, in the absence of a
pancreatic supplement.  In all cases, the addition of pancreatic
supplement to the general diet improved protein digestibility and
utilisation.  Substituting 85% of the dietary protein with the
enzymic casein hydrolysate resulted in further improvement in
nitrogen balance (but not digestibility) for five of the patients.
Urinary nitrogen levels of the casein hydrolysate diet tended to be
lower, which accounts for the finding above.  With the
acid-hydrolysed protein, urinary nitrogen was higher when compared
with the excretion from the partial casein hydrolysate and provided
smaller positive nitrogen balances.  These preliminary findings
indicate that, for some patients with pancreatic insufficiency,
partial hydrolysates have greater potential for nitrogen retention
than the administration of exogenous pancreatic extracts with intact
protein.  It is suggested that a daily supplement of pre-digested
protein might be advantageous for CH children to ensure that minimum
protein requirements are met.

