Allars-H-M.  Blomfield-J.  Rush-A-R.  Brown-J-M.

Colloid and crystal formation in parotid saliva of cystic fibrosis
patients and non-cystic fibrosis subjects.  I. Physicochemistry.

COLLOIDS: me.  CRYSTALLIZATION.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.
PAROTID-GLAND:  me.  SALIVA: me.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CALCIUM: me.  CHEMISTRY-PHYSICAL.  CHILD.
COLD.  EDTA: pd.  GUANIDINES: pd.  HEATING.  HUMAN.  PHOSPHATES: me.
PROTEINS: me.  SALIVA: de.  NEPHELOMETRY-AND-TURBIDIMETRY.  UREA: pd.

Two types of turbidity were found in parotid saliva from both cystic
fibrosis (CF) patients and non-CF subjects. On cooling saliva, a
rapidly forming, reversible, cold-dependent turbidity appeared in
increasing amounts with decreasing temperature and increasing protein
concentration. At 37 degrees, a slowly forming, stable turbidity
appeared in increased amounts in parotid saliva samples containing
increased amounts of calcium. The 2 degree centrifuged pellet
consisted predominantly of protein, whereas the 37 degree pellet
contained calcium, inorganic phosphate, and protein. The cold-
dependent turbidity at 2 degrees was not inhibited by EDTA, but 37
degrees turbidity was dramatically inhibited. Urea and guanidine
hydrochloride reduced 2 degree turbidity, and, to a lesser extent,
inhibited 37 degree turbidity. The tendency towards higher levels of
protein, amylase, and calcium in CF compared with child control
parotid saliva (4, 6) causes a greater incidence and degree of
turbidity formation in saliva of CF patients. In this paper only the
nature of the turbidity has been investigated, not its relative
occurrence in each group of subjects.

