Brown-B-R-Jr.  Walson-P-D.  Taussig-L-M.

Congenital metabolic diseases of pediatric patients: anesthetic
implications.

ANESTHESIA.

ACIDOSIS: pc.  DYSAUTONOMIA-FAMILIAL.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS.
GLUCOSEPHOSPHATASE-DEFICIENCY.  GLYCOGENOSIS-5.  HOMOCYSTINURIA: me.
HUMAN.  HYPERINSULINISM.  HYPOGLYCEMIA: pc.
METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS.  MUSCULAR-DISEASES: cn.
MYOTONIA-ATROPHICA.  MYOTONIA-CONGENITA.  SUCCINYLCHOLINE: ae.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

The large number of congenital metabolic disorders makes a complete
discussion of the biochemical problems, hazards, pharmacologic
implications, and anesthetic recommendations for each impossible.
This review is confined to discussion of certain aspects of several
genetically acquired diseases of metabolism which the
anaesthesiologist may be called upon to manage in the pediatric
patient.  Every genetic metabolic disease is the result of a specific
enzyme defect (or defects) in function or in amount.  In this review,
diseases in which defects are known (e.g., homocystinuria), suspected
(e.g., myotonia congenita), and unknown (e.g., cystic fibrosis) are
discussed.  Therapeutic approaches to genetic metabolic disease
include: supplying the missing product; preventing substrate
accumulation; preventing alternate product synthesis; enzyme
induction; enzyme replacement; increasing deficient function with
cofactor administration; and compensatory therapy.  Obviously, the
ideal way to treat the consequences of a genetic disease is to
normalize the patient biochemically.  For diseases where the
pathophysiology is clear, this goal is approachable; for conditions
where the pathophysiology is unknown, only compensatory therapy is
possible.

