Mangos-J-A.  Bargman-G-J.  Martinez-J-R.  Rennert-O-M.

Physiology and pharmacology of secretion and cystic fibrosis.  A
review of past developments and projections into the future.  pp.
311-36.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.  EXOCRINE-GLANDS: se.

ADENOSINE-TRIPHOSPHATE: me.  ANIMAL.  BODY-FLUIDS: se.  CALCIUM: me.
CHLORIDES: me.  DISEASE-MODELS-ANIMAL.  EXOCRINE-GLANDS: ir.
GLUCOSE: se.  HUMAN.  MEMBRANE-POTENTIALS.  MICE.  MONOGRAPH.
NEURAL-TRANSMISSION.  NEUROSECRETION.  OSMOLAR-CONCENTRATION.
PANCREAS: se.  POLYAMINES: ph.  POTASSIUM: me.  REVIEW.
SALIVARY-GLANDS: se.  SODIUM: me.  SWEAT-GLANDS: se.  SWEAT: se.
UREA: se.  WATER: me.

Cystic fibrosis is a recessively inherited metabolic disease which is
characterized by a universal dysfunction in the exocrine glands of
affected individuals.  This dysfunction results in abnormalities of
the composition and/or the physiochemical behavior of the various
exocrine gland products.  Although significant advances have been
made in our understanding of exocrine gland physiology and
pharmacology, many questions remain unanswered and significant gaps
exist in our knowledge of exocrine gland function.  Perhaps
clarification of these issues may lead to better understanding of the
pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis and to development of better forms of
therapy for the patients.  The purpose of this article is to review
past and present developments in this area of biomedical research and
to point out areas of exocrine gland physiology and pharmacology
where more knowledge is needed in order to clarify the nature of a
disease like cystic fibrosis.  Composition of the acinar fluid,
secretory mechanisms, modification of ductal fluid, ionic dependence
and energy requirements of the secretory process, calcium metabolism
in exocrine glands, and exocrine gland dysfunction in cystic fibrosis
are discussed.

