Griffiths-E-K.  Yoonessi-S.  Neter-E.

Antibody response to enterobacterial lipoprotein of patients with
varied infections due to Enterobacteriaceae.

ANTIBODIES-BACTERIAL: an.  BACTERIAL-PROTEINS: im.
ENTEROBACTERIACEAE-INFECTIONS: im.  LIPOPROTEINS: im.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  AGED.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  DYSENTERY-BACILLARY: im.
ENTEROBACTERIACEAE: im.  HUMAN.  INFANT.  MIDDLE-AGE.  PERITONITIS: im.
RESPIRATORY-TRACT-INFECTIONS: et, im.  SALMONELLA-INFECTIONS: im.
SEPTICEMIA: im.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

The present study was initiated to determine the antibody response
to lipoprotein of patients with various enterobacterial infections.
This investigation was also considered important because patients
with these infections respond differently to another antigen common
to enterobacteriaceae, the common enterobacterial antigen.
Included were 33 patients with cystic fibrosis, complicated by
enterobacterial respiratory tract infection.  The lipoprotein (LP)
antibody levels of healthy subjects and of patients with varied
enterobacterial infections were determined.  None of the healthy
children and only one of the healthy adults had antibodies against
LP.  In contrast, 18% of the children with peritonitis complicating
appendicitis, 24% of patients with enterobacterial infection of the
respiratory tract complicating cystic fibrosis, and 42% of adult
subjects with bacteremia complicating malignancy, had LP antibodies
in the serum.  The reason for these striking differences in the
immune response to this common antigen remains to be elucidated.

