McManus-S-P.  Masterson-J.

Letter: Cellular metachromasia with toluidine blue O in cultured
white cells of cystic fibrosis heterozygotes.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  STAINS-AND-STAINING.  TOLONIUM-CHLORIDE.
HETEROZYGOTE.

HUMAN.  MALE.  FEMALE.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  LEUKOCYTES.
CELLS-CULTURED.

We examined white cell cultures from 45 parents of CF patients (ie,
compulsory heterozygotes) to confirm if possible the existence of
an ametachromatic group (class III0 and the quantitate this class
in relation to the numbers of heterozygotes showing vesicular
cytoplasmic metachromasia (class I0 and generalized metachromasia
(class II).  Leucocyte cultures from the 45 CF carriers were set up
in parallel with similar cultures from 45 normal healthy controls.
The results confirm the value of the Toluidine Blue O metachromasia
phenomenon in white cell cultures as a method for heterozygote
detection in cystic fibrosis and suggest that it may be justified
to replace the tedious, expensive and time-consuming fibroblast
technique with the much simpler and more rapid leukocyte culture
procedure.  The simplicity and apparent reliability of the
leukocyte culture procedure as outlined here should facilitate
intrafamilial investigation and co-ordination of metachromasia
class with other parameters such as sweat electrolytes, ciliary
dyskinetic factor and clinical manifestations.  Such a study, if it
revealed distinct and consistent phenotypic correlations, might
furnish valuable additional evidence for genetic heterogeneity in
cystic fibrosis.

