Schaap-T.  Cohen-M-M.

A proposed model for the inheritance of cystic fibrosis.  pp.
291-307.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  MODELS-BIOLOGICAL.

ALLELES.  CAUCASOID-RACE.  CONSANGUINITY.  GENE-FREQUENCY.  GENES.
GENES-RECESSIVE.  GENOTYPE.  HETEROZYGOTE.  HUMAN.  MONGOLOID-RACE.
MONOGRAPH.  MUTATION.  PEDIGREE.  POLYMORPHISM-GENETICS.
SELECTION-GENETICS.  SEX-FACTORS.

To geneticists, cystic fibrosis, perhaps the most frequently
encountered genetic disease among Caucasians of European origin,
presents an enigmatic dilemma on various levels.  Those problem areas
which complicate our understanding of this disease include methods of
diagnosis, ascertainment, and analysis and interpretation of data.
In spite of an apparently clear-cut mode of inheritance (autosomal
recessive), several conceptual difficulties exist in the acceptance
of this formal transmission pattern.  The most pressing problem of
all, perhaps, is the population genetics of CF.  The fact that a
lethal gene may be maintained at such elevated frequencies and
restricted to given population groups represents a seemingly genetic
paradox.  Our aim is to review some of the problems encountered in a
genetic study of CF and to propose a theoretical model which may help
in their elucidation.  Topics discussed include problems of
diagnosis, ascertainment, and data analysis; family studies and
inferences as to the mode of inheritance; population studies; and a
proposed model for the inheritance of CF.  The main tenet of this
model states that CF is determined by dominant alleles at two
autosomal loci, with interaction between them.

