Wolf-R-O.  Taussig-L.

Serum salivary amylase in cystic fibrosis [letter].

AMYLASES: an.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.  ISOENZYMES: an.  SALIVA: en.

AMYLASES: bl.  HUMAN.  ISOENZYMES: bl.

We found that cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with pancreatic
insufficiency (PI) had a statistically lower total serum amylase
level than normal subjects, but all values were still within the
normal range.  Although we found that the absolute amount of salivary
amylase, in the serum of patients with CF and PI, was the same as
that for normal subjects, the percent of contribution was
considerably higher.  We found that the pancreas contributed
approximately 23% of the total serum amylase in CF patients with PI,
a value very similar to the 34% amount found by Kamaryt et al.  We
also found, as did Davidson et al., that CF patients without PI had
higher total serum amylase values than did normal subjects.  Thus,
we feel that Davidson et al. have misinterpreted the results of our
previous study and, in fact, we feel that Davidson et al. have
essentially confirmed our previous work by suggesting that CF
patients with pancreatic insufficiency have an increased salivary
amylase for reasons yet unknown.  Our experience has shown that,
indeed, the pancreatic portion is first increased and then decreases
as the patient with CF and apparent normal pancreatic function
progresses, with time, toward pancreatic insufficiency.  However, the
changes in serum amylase values in patients with CF are on the
average due to changes in the pancreatic contribution to the serum
and as expressed as a mean was highly significantly different for
both normal and abnormal pancreatic function.  The second important
point of our paper was that this mean variation occurred in serum
samples from patients with CF that had total amylase values within
the normal test range.  The serum salivary isoamylase in both normals
and patients with CF and PI had a higher serum salivary percent.

