Goodchild-M-C.  Murphy-G-M.  Howell-A-M.  Nutter-S-A.  Anderson-C-M.

Aspects of bile acid metabolism in cystic fibrosis.

BILE-ACIDS-AND-SALTS: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  FECES: an.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  BILE-ACIDS-AND-SALTS: bl.  BODY-FLUIDS: me.
CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  DUODENUM: me.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.  INFANT.
LIPIDS: me.  MALE.  PANCREATIC-DISEASES: me.

Previous reports have indicated that cystic fibrosis (CF) patients
with pancreatic enzyme insufficiency have a raised faecal bile acid
output.  In this study, 18 out of 29 CF patients and 2 out of the 4
non-CF patients with pancreatic enzyme insufficiency had raised
faecal bile acid levels.  In the CF patients no correlation was
found between faecal bile acid and faecal fat excretion, but an
inverse relation was shown between faecal bile acid values and age.
Those CF patients with overt liver disease tended to have the lowest
faecal bile acid values.  Duodenal spiration in 5 CF patients and in
one non-CF patient with pancreatic enzyme insufficiency
(Shwachman-Diamond syndrome), produced very small fluid volumes.
Duodenal fluid mean total bile acid concentrations were within
normal limits.  Estimation of serum bile acids in these 6 patients
showed that 3 patients had raised serum bile acid values.  It is
suggested that excessive faecal bile acid loss may produce a
contraction of the bile acid pool, and lead eventually to a
reduction of intraduodenal bile acid concentrations.  Measures which
curtail faecal bile acid loss may have a particular significance in
the management of CF.

