Lykkegaard-E.  Jacobsen-L.

Classes of skin fibroblast metachromasia in cystic fibrosis
correlated with clinical parameters.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pa.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  AGE-FACTORS.  BIOPSY.  BLOOD-PROTEINS: an.
CELLS-CULTURED.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: ra, bl.
FEMALE.  FIBROBLASTS.  HUMAN.  MALE.  RETROSPECTIVE-STUDIES.
SEX-FACTORS.  SKIN: pa.  STAINS-AND-STAINING.

A retrospective study of clinical and radiological lung symptoms and
intensity of treatment of 98 patients with cystic fibrosis was
conducted.  The results were correlated to class of skin fibroblast
metachromasia.  Fourteen patients belonged to class I (vesicular
metachromasia), 52 to class II (generalized metachromasia), and 32 to
class III (no metachromasia).  All patients above 16 years of age
(six patients) were class II.  Simple scoring systems for clinical
lung symptoms and for treatment of lung disease were developed.  When
compared at the same ages, class I and III patients were more
severely affected (judged by the clinical lung symptoms) than class
II patients, and they had been more intensively treated.  Comparing
class I + II patients (metachromatic fibroblasts) with class III
patients (ametachromatic fibroblasts), it was found that class III
patients were more severely affected and had been more intensively
treated than class I + II patients.  As regards chest radiographs
(judged by Norman's system) a similar pattern was seen, but no
statistically significant differences were found.  In 68 patients (9
of class I, 35 of class II, and 24 of class III) the serum protein
electrophoretic fractions were studied.  It was found that class III
patients had more severe alterations than class II patients, and more
than class I + II patients.  The proportion of female patients in
class III was greater than in the other two classes, but this could
not explain the differences.  Because of the small number of patients
in class I, the differences between class I and class II patients are
more doubtful than the differences between class III and class II
patients, or between class III and class I + II patients.

