Richards-W.

Differential diagnosis of childhood asthma.

ASTHMA: di.

AGE-FACTORS.  ASTHMA: co, dt, pp, ra, th.  CHILD.
CHILD-HEALTH-SERVICES.  CHILD-INSTITUTIONALIZED.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS:  di.  DEFICIENCY-DISEASES: di.
DIAGNOSIS-DIFFERENTIAL.  EPHEDRINE:  tu.  FOREIGN-BODIES: co.
HEART-DEFECTS-CONGENITAL: co.  HUMAN.  NEOPLASMS: co.  PSYCHOTHERAPY.
RESPIRATORY-HYPERSENSITIVITY: di.  RESPIRATORY-SYSTEM: ab.
RESPIRATORY-TRACT-INFECTIONS: di.  RESPIRATORY-TRACT-NEOPLASMS: di.
REVIEW.  THEOPHYLLINE: tu.

"Asthma," according to the United States National Tuberculosis
Association, "is a disease characterized by an increased
responsiveness of the trachea and bronchi to various stimuli, and
made manifest by difficulty of breathing due to generalized narrowing
of the airways.  This narrowing is dynamic and changes in degree,
either spontaneously or because of therapy.  The basic defect appears
to be an altered state of the host."  The maxim, "All that wheezes is
not asthma," justifiably reinforces the importance of differential
diagnosis; indeed, the characteristic features of asthma may be found
to some degree in a wide variety of chest conditions or general
systemic diseases.  The purposes of this monograph are to review
those conditions that may be confused with asthma and to focus
attention on the specific points of importance in the history,
physical examination and laboratory test results that might provide
clues to the final diagnosis.

