Kilbourn-J-P.

Bacterial content and ionic composition of sputum in cystic fibrosis
[letter].

BACTERIA.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS.  ELECTROLYTES.  SPUTUM.

BACTERIA: ip.  CALCIUM: an.  CANDIDA-ALBICANS: ip.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: mi.  ELECTROLYTES: an.  HUMAN.  POTASSIUM: an.
SODIUM: an.  SPUTUM: an, mi.

Burns and May proposed the following pattern for the bacteriology of
cystic fibrosis: (1) Staphylococcus aureus is the initial bacterial
pathogen, and damage caused by it renders the lungs susceptible to
infection by other species.  (2) Control of S. aureus by antibiotics
allows the influx of Haemophilus influenzae.  (3) Pseudomonas
aeruginosa is introduced and continued chemotherapy encourages its
establishment.  (4) P. aeruginosa supplants S. aureus and H.
influenzae, becoming the sole pathogen.  I have examined these ideas
by quantitative culture of sputum from 20 patients seen at the Cystic
Fibrosis Treatment and Research Center, University of Oregon Health
Sciences Center from 1965 to 1977.  The results accord with the
original hypothesis of Burns and May.  In 13 of 20 patients the
sputum bacterial flora changed as the hypothesis of Burns and May
predicted.  This preliminary data suggests that one of the primary
sputum abnormalities in cystic fibrosis may be increased Ca++ which
makes the sputum susceptible to colonisation by S. aureus.  After
infection the Ca++ concentration is reduced and the lung becomes
susceptible to colonisation by other microorganisms including H.
influenzae, P. aeruginosa, and Escherichia coli.

