McFarlane-H.  Holzel-A.  Brenchley-P.  Allan-J-D.  Wallwork-J-C.
Singer-B-E.  Worsley-B.

Immune complexes in cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im.

ADSORPTION.  ADULT.  ANTIBODIES.  ANTIGEN-ANTIBODY-COMPLEX: an.
AUTORADIOGRAPHY.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  COMPLEMENT: an.  FEMALE.
FLUORESCENT-ANTIBODY-TECHNIC.  GASTROINTESTINAL-SYSTEM: im.
CHROMATOGRAPHY-GEL.  HEMOLYSINS: ip.  HUMAN.  IGA.  IGG: ip.  IGM.
IMMUNOELECTROPHORESIS.  INFANT.  LUNG: im.  MALE.  PRECIPITIN-TESTS.
RESPIRATORY-SYSTEM: im.  SERUM-ALBUMIN-BOVINE: im.  SPUTUM: im.
STAPHYLOCOCCUS.

Circulating immune complexes were detected in serum and sputum of
patients with cystic fibrosis (C.F.).  There were extensive deposits
of immunoglobulins and complement immune complexes in several of the
C.F. organs, especially the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts,
but not in the kidneys.  Significant concentrations of IgG and of
complement complexes could be eluted from the lungs of the C.F.
patients but not from those of controls.  Studies involving
immunoabsorption, autoradiography, and molecular sieving through
Sephadex G-200 columns identified both bovine serum albumin and
staphylococcal alpha-haemolysin as two of the antigens present in
the immune complexes.  The sedimentation constant of the immune
complexes was about 8S to 11S.  The clinical significance of these
immune complexes and the wide variety of antibodies detected in C.F.
patients are discussed.

