Breslow-J-L.  Epstein-J.  Vayo-M-M.  Fontaine-J-H.

Decreased ouabain binding in cystic fibrosis fibroblasts in
potassium-free medium.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  OUABAIN: me.

BIOLOGICAL-TRANSPORT.  CULTURE-MEDIA.  FIBROBLASTS: me.  GLUCOSE: pd.
HUMAN.  POTASSIUM: pd.  RECEPTORS-DRUG: me.  RUBIDIUM: me.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

We have previously demonstrated that cystic fibrosis (CF) cells show
increased survival compared to normal cells when exposed to ouabain
in medium lacking potassium.  In this report, we show that the CF
cells bind significantly less ouabain than the normal cells in
potassium-deficient medium.  Using age-matched normal and CF skin
fibroblast strains, we show that (1) at ouabain concentrations <
20x10-9 M binding for both normal and CF cells is linear with time
for 1 h and reaches equilibrium after 4 h; (2) at ouabain
concentrations between 2 and 20x10-9 M, the initial rate of binding
for CF cells is approx. 70% of the normal cells; (3) under
equilibrium-binding conditions, Scatchard analysis reveals that
three different CF strains have 12, 16, and 44% fewer
ouabain-binding sites than their matched normal controls.  In
addition, studies in potassium-free medium of the inhibition of
86Rb flux (a K-plus analogue) into the cell by ouabain show no
differences between CF and normal cells.  We have also previously
shown that in a low glucose, potassium-deficient medium the CF cells
survived ouabain exposure no better than normal cells.  In this
report, equilibrium-binding studies with [3H]ouabain clearly show
that CF cells bind less ouabain under these conditions than normal
cells.  These results indicate that ouabain resistance in CF cells
is not solely a function of differences in ouabain binding.
Furthermore, the differential ouabain killing may not be due to ion
transport differences, but rather to as yet unknown mechanisms.  CF
cells thus appear to be unlike previously characterized
ouabain-resistant mutants.

