Crozier-D-N.

Cystic fibrosis: a not-so-fatal disease.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: th.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di, mo, co.  DIET-THERAPY.  DIETARY-FATS: ad.
DRUG-THERAPY-COMBINATION.  FEMALE.  GENTAMICINS: tu.  HUMAN.  INFANT.
INFANT-NEWBORN.  INFECTION: dt, et.  INTESTINAL-ATRESIA: co.
INTESTINAL-OBSTRUCTION:  co.  LUNG-DISEASES: dt, et.  MALE.
NASAL-POLYPS: co.  NUTRITION.  PANCREATIC-DISEASES: co.
PENICILLINS: tu.  PROGNOSIS.  RECTAL-PROLAPSE: pc.  REVIEW.
SINUSITIS: co.  INFERTILITY-MALE: et.  VITAMINS.

Cystic fibrosis is an intricate, vexatious disease involving the
whole patient.  As yet we are only able to treat the signs and
symptoms, and this should be done as completely as possible.
Treatment is geared at eradicating the Staphylococcus aureus from the
lung and preventing reinfection.  Gram-negative organisms,
particularly Pseudomonas aeruginosa, are treated when they become
pathogenic.  Other conditions such as atopia of the respiratory tract
or gastrointestinal system may be detrimental to the patient's cystic
fibrosis condition and must be controlled.  Pancreatic insufficiency
requires adequate enzyme replacement therapy to prevent steatorrhea
and azotorrhea.  If fatty acids play a role in membrane oxygen
transport then their abnormal composition in cystic fibrosis may
require specific changes in the type of fat intake.  Salt depletion
should be looked for and corrected.  A screening test for cystic
fibrosis is needed, preferably one done on a small blood specimen.

