Newhouse-M.  Sanchis-J.  Bienenstock-J.

Lung defense mechanisms (first of two parts).

LUNG: ph.

AIRWAY-OBSTRUCTION: pp.  ANIMAL.  BRONCHI: ph, se.  BRONCHITIS: pp.
CILIA: ph, ul.  COMPLEMENT: ph.  COUGH: pp.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.
EXOCRINE-GLANDS: ph.  FILTRATION.  HUMAN.  LUNG: im, me, pp, ul.
MOTION.  MUCUS: ph.  PARTICLE-SIZE.  REFLEX.  RESPIRATION.
RESPIRATORY-AIRFLOW.  REVIEW.  SMOKING: pp.  TRACHEA: me, se.

One of the most important functions of the lung, aside from its role
in gas exchange and metabolism, is the provision of an essential
biologic barrier between man and his environment.  Of fundamental
importance is the way in which the airways and lung parenchyma
prevent entry of and neutralize or remove injurious agents, tasks
performed so efficiently that the lung is normally sterile from the
first bronchial division to terminal lung units.  Inhaled particles
may be deposited in the respiratory tract as a result of impaction,
sedimentation, Brownian motion, turbulent diffusion, and, to a
minimal degree, electrostatic forces.  Particles deposited between
the posterior two thirds of the nasal cavity and the nasopharynx and
from the larynx to the terminal bronchioles land on airways lined by
mucus-covered, ciliated epithelium and are removed by means of
mucociliary transport mechanisms.  The structure of the mucociliary
transport system, physical aspects of mucus, nonspecific soluble
factors in airways secretions, and cilia and mucociliary transport
are discussed.

