Roller-R-J.  Kern-F.

Minimal bile acid malabsorption and normal bile acid breath tests in
cystic fibrosis and acquired pancreatic insufficiency.

BILE-ACIDS-AND-SALTS: me.  BREATH-TESTS.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.
MALABSORPTION-SYNDROMES: me.  PANCREATIC-DISEASES: me.

ADULT.  AGED.  CARBON-DIOXIDE.  COMPARATIVE-STUDY.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dt.  DIARRHEA: me.  FECES: an.  FEMALE.
GLYCOCHOLIC-ACID: me.  HUMAN.  ILEUM: su.  LIPASE: me.  LIPIDS: me.
MALE.  MIDDLE-AGE.  PANCREATIC-DISEASES: co, dt.  PANCREATIN: me.
CELIAC-DISEASE: et.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

This study was undertaken because of reports of a marked increase in
fecal bile acid excretion by children with cystic fibrosis. We
attempted to confirm this finding by performing [1-14C]cholylglycine
breath tests and by measuring fecal bile acid and fat excretion in
patients with cystic fibrosis and acquired pancreatic insufficiency.
Studies were done when patients were taking pancreatic enzymes
(Cotazym) and also without medication. 14CO2 excretion in breath was
normal in patients with acquired pancreatic insufficiency and even
lower in cystic fibrosis, both with and without Cotazym therapy.
Fecal bile acid excretion was slightly elevated in both groups
without Cotazym and became normal with Cotazym in patients with
acquired pancreatic insufficiency. Steatorrhea was present in both
patient groups and improved during Cotazym therapy. Bile acid
malabsorption in cystic fibrosis and acquired pancreatic
insufficiency is minimal and probably not clinically important.

