Dominick-H-C.  Husen-N-V.  Hosemann-R.  Gerlach-U.

Isoenzymes of alkaline phosphatase in the serum of patients with
cystic fibrosis.

ALKALINE-PHOSPHATASE: bl.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.

ADOLESCENCE.  BILE-DUCTS: en.  BILIARY-TRACT-DISEASES: et, di.
BODY-WEIGHT.  BONE-AND-BONES: en.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
ELECTROPHORESIS-POLYACRYLAMIDE-GEL.  ELECTROPHORESIS-STARCH-GEL.
ENZYME-TESTS.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.  INTESTINES: en.  ISOENZYMES: bl.
LIVER-DISEASES: et, di.  LIVER: en.  MALE.

In 36 children with cystic fibrosis (CF), the isoenzymes of alkaline
phosphatase (AP) were determined microelectrophoretically in
polyacrylamide- and starch-gel.  The study was done to evaluate the
clinical significance of these additional data for the diagnosis of
liver involvement in CF.  The results lead to the following
conclusions.  Serum activity of total AP is comparatively
unsensitive "masking" alterations in the isoenzyme pattern
contributing to the AP serum activity.  In 17 children resp. 47%
bile-duct phosphatase was increased indicating a secretostasis
while other marker enzymes of cholestasis were normal in part.  The
activity of bone phosphatase in the serum showed a significant
correlation to the degree of growth retardation in these patients.
Intestinal phosphatase was present in the serum of only one child
with cirrhosis of the liver being an indicator for liver
insufficiency.  Determination of AP isoenzymes in the serum may
provide additional information about the organs involved for the
physician in handling CF patients.

