Danes-B-S.

Letter: Uptake of 35S-heparin by lymphocytes from cystic-fibrosis
patients.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  HEPARIN: me.  LYMPHOCYTES: me.

CELLS-CULTURED.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  HEPARIN: bl.  HUMAN.
LEUKOCYTES: me.  MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDES: bl, me.  SULFUR-RADIOISOTOPES.

In 1969 Danes and Bearn proposed that the metachromasia noted in
short-term white-blood-cell cultures from both cystic fibrosis
(C.F.) homozygotes and heterozygotes probably reflected uptake of
heparin from the culture-medium by pinocytosis and not, as in the
genetic mucopolysaccharidoses, stored mucopolysaccharides.  This
hypothesis was recently confirmed by Robertson et al.  Using
35S-heparin they demonstrated an increased uptake of heparin in
short-term C.F. white-blood-cell cultures which corresponded to the
observations made on the basis of staining.  However, as mentioned
in 1971 by Bafalluy et al., any white blood-cell in culture can be
overloaded with heparin.  As the processes involved in endocytosis
and exocytosis probably are inconstant within one cell and
certainly in different cell types, standardisation of cytoplasmic
retention of heparin may not be possible in order to eliminate the
partial overlap between normals, C.F. homozygotes and obligatory
heterozygotes observed by Robertson et al.  This report on
35S-heparin again raised the question of the significance of
cellular mucopolysaccharides in cystic fibrosis.  The relevance of
mucopolysaccharides in the C.F. cultured cell is still unclear.
Between 1968 and 1970 the mucopolysaccharide content of the
cultured fibroblast was reported as normal and variable.

