Shwachman-H.  Kowalski-M.  Khaw-K-T.

Cystic fibrosis: a new outlook.  70 patients above 25 years of age.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.

ADULT.  ANTIBIOTICS: tu.  CHILD.  CLUBFOOT: et.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co, th.  EDUCATIONAL-STATUS.  FAMILY-CHARACTERISTICS.
FEMALE.  FOLLOW-UP-STUDIES.  HOSPITALIZATION.  HUMAN.  MALE.
MARRIAGE.  NASAL-POLYPS: et.  OCCUPATIONS.
OSTEOARTHROPATHY-SECONDARY-HYPERTROPHIC: et.  PATIENT-COMPLIANCE.
PREGNANCY.  QUALITY-OF-LIFE.  RESPIRATORY-FUNCTION-TESTS.
SOCIOECONOMIC-FACTORS.  SPUTUM: mi.  SWEAT.

We have presented a group of 70 patients over 25 years of age as of
January 1, 1975, who were diagnosed as having cystic fibrosis (CF) at
various ages from birth to 28 years. Some patients were diagnosed
late in life in spite of classical symptoms and a characteristic
history of the disease. Patients with CF present with a broad
spectrum of symptoms which vary considerably in severity. This older
age group represents approximately 10% of our current roster of
patients with CF. This disease is no longer confined to early life
and will continue to be seen with increasing frequency in older
patients. Our experience with this disease indicates that a number of
affected individuals can attain adulthood and find a useful place in
society. The quality of life provided to these adults is illustrated
in their intellectual, socioeconomic achievements and marital life.
Our aim has been to recognize the disease as early in life as
possible and to provide a comprehensive medical program which
includes all aspects of health care.

