Silverman-M.  Hobbs-F-D.  Gordon-I-R.  Carswell-F.

Cystic fibrosis, atopy, and airways lability.

AIRWAY-OBSTRUCTION: co.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.
HYPERSENSITIVITY-IMMEDIATE: co.

ADULT.  ALLERGENS.  ASPERGILLUS-FUMIGATUS: im.  CHILD.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.  EXERTION.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.  MALE.
PEAK-EXPIRATORY-FLOW-RATE.  PROSPECTIVE-STUDIES.

In a survey of cystic fibrosis (CF) in the Avon area, 48 children
with CF from 40 families together with 71 of their parents were
studied by spirometry, exercise tests, and pinch tests. A control
group of 42 young adults was similarly tested; control data for
children were taken from previously published work. The prevalence of
atopy (any positive prick test) in children with CF was 48%.
Sensitivity to grass pollens and house dust mite was no more common
in these children (29%) than in a normal population (34%).
Hypersensitivity to Aspergillus fumigatus was found in 35% of
children with CF and was associated with severe lung disease. The
parents had a normal pattern and prevalence of atopy. Exercise-
induced airways obstruction was present in only 22% of children with
CF; its association with severe lung disease rendered interpretation
difficult. The parents had a normal response to exercise. Both
hypersensitivity to A. fumigatus and exercise-induced airways
lability had the features of acquired characteristics. There was
nothing in the present study to support the hypothesis that the
possession of a CF gene predisposed to atopy.

