Conover-J-H.  Conod-E-J.

Letter: Complement in cystic fibrosis.

COMPLEMENT.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: im.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: et.  FEMALE.  HISTAMINE-LIBERATION.  HUMAN.
IGG:  an.  IMMUNE-COMPLEX-DISEASE.  MALE.  SEX-RATIO.

Lieberman reported that there was considerable overlap in
quantitative C3 levels between all of the C.F. subjects tested, and
the control group.  His control group, however, was composed of
subjects with bronchiectasis or chronic bronchitis, in whom C.F. had
been ruled out.  The use of a more proper control group by
Lieberman, either in place of or in parallel with his "diseased"
control groups, would have provided a more meaningful interpretation
concerning the role of complement in cystic fibrosis.  We agree that
there is a tendency for C3 to be higher in C.F. females than in C.F.
males.  Although Lieberman was quick to dispel any notion of C3a
being implicated in the aetiology of C.F., he overlooked the one
facet of our initial study that still makes our hypothesis feasible
- raised C3 levels in C.F. obligate heterozygotes.  Hann et al.
reported that serum-C5 was raised in both C.F. patients and their
parents.  Our initial data on C5 levels by radial immunodiffusion
and haemolytic studies do not confirm this finding.  We are
supporting the hypothesis that C.F. is either a complement-caused or
complement-mediated disorder, in which a C3a-like molecule (C3a,
bradykinin) either alone or by complexing with IgG gives rise to the
physiological and pathological state of C.F.

