Ellis-C-E.  Hill-D-E.

Growth, intelligence, and school performance in children with cystic
fibrosis who have had an episode of malnutrition during infancy.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.  GROWTH.  INFANT-NUTRITION-DISORDERS: pp.
INTELLIGENCE.

ACHIEVEMENT.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  FEMALE.
FOLLOW-UP-STUDIES.  HUMAN.  INFANT-NUTRITION-DISORDERS: et.  MALE.
SOCIAL-ADJUSTMENT.

In this study, we have compared two groups of children with cystic
fibrosis.  One group of CF children had severe malnutrition in the
first year of life, whereas the second group of CF children had not
been malnourished.  The catch-up growth experienced by both the
control and malnourished groups was impressive and was generally
complete in terms of height and weight for age.  This finding is
consistent with other reports regarding catch-up growth following
malnutrition associated with celiac disease, anorexia nervosa, renal
acidosis, Cushing syndrome, and hypothyroidism.  Though the
malnourished group tended to have lower IQ and school performance
scores, the differences were not statistically significant except for
backward digit span.  That difference may indicate an organic
impairment due to malnutrition or to any of several other factors.
Our data fail to demonstrate any permanent or devastating effect of
early malnutrition during a very rapid growth phase on the subsequent
growth, IQ, and school performance in children with cystic fibrosis
studied at age 7 to 10 years.

