Burton-B-K.  Gerbie-A-B.  Nadler-H-L.

Present status of intrauterine diagnosis of genetic defects.

HEREDITARY-DISEASES: di.  PRENATAL-DIAGNOSIS.

ACID-PHOSPHATASE: me.  ADRENAL-HYPERPLASIA-CONGENITAL: di.
AMINO-ACID-METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: di.  AMNIOCENTESIS.  AMNIOSCOPY.
AMNIOTIC-FLUID.  BLOOD-CHEMICAL-ANALYSIS.
CARBOHYDRATE-METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: di.
CHROMOSOME-ABNORMALITIES:  di.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  ENDOSCOPY.
FEMALE.  FETUS: pa, ra.  HUMAN.  LESCH-NYHAN-SYNDROME: di.
LIPID-METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS:  di.  LYSOSOMES: me.
METABOLISM-INBORN-ERRORS: di.  MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDOSIS: di.  PREGNANCY.
REVIEW.  ULTRASONICS: du.  URINE: an.

Prenatal diagnosis of genetic disorders has received increasing
attention during the past several years.  Rapid expansion of our
knowledge of the basis of genetic disease and the development of
reliable diagnostic methods have led to rapid advances in the
intrauterine diagnosis of a large number of inherited disorders.
Prenatal diagnosis was initially used to determine the presence of
Down's syndrome and other chromosomal abnormalities and for the
determination of fetal sex in pregnancies at risk for a number of
severe X-linked recessive disorders.  Shortly thereafter, it became
clear that the same techniques could be applied to the prenatal
diagnosis of a number of the inborn errors of metabolism.  Most
recently, a number of new techniques have been developed that may
prove to be of great value in the prenatal diagnosis of a number of
severe congenital malformations that before now could not be
diagnosed prior to birth.  The goal of this review is to define the
past achievements, future goals, and present limitations of
intrauterine diagnosis.  The first section will deal with the general
approaches used in prenatal diagnosis of genetic disorders.  This
will be followed by a discussion of the specific applications of the
basic techniques to the intrauterine diagnosis of chromosomal
abnormalities and of the inborn errors of metabolism.  Approaches to
prenatal diagnosis of genetic disorders include amniocentesis, direct
and indirect visualization of the fetus, analysis of maternal blood
and urine, and sampling of fetal tissues.  Applications of prenatal
genetic diagnosis include X-linked recessive disorders, chromosomal
abnormalities, inborn errors of metabolism, disorders of lipid
metabolism, disorders of carbohydrate metabolism, disorders of
mucopolysaccharide metabolism, disorders of amino acid metabolism,
and miscellaneous disorders such as cystic fibrosis.  These
techniques provide some parents with methods for having children
without fear of having a child with a specific deformity.  In
addition to the development of approaches which will increase the
number of disorders detectable in utero, the potential for treatment
of genetic disorders is unlimited.

