Sleisenger-M-H.  Brandborg-L-L.

Malabsorption.

MALABSORPTION-SYNDROMES: di.

BIOPSY.  CELIAC-DISEASE: di.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.
GASTROENTERITIS: di.  HUMAN.  INTESTINAL-ABSORPTION.
INTESTINAL-NEOPLASMS: co.  INTESTINE-SMALL: im, mi, pa, pp.
LIPODYSTROPHY-INTESTINAL: di.  LYMPHOMA: co.
MALABSORPTION-SYNDROMES: co, pa, pp, th.  CELIAC-DISEASE: di.

Laboratory diagnosis of malabsorption syndromes in children is more
difficult for obvious reasons involving the collection of specimens.
The early diagnosis of cystic fibrosis is extremely urgent, since
the disease is treatable.  The standard test is the sweat test.
Over 99 percent of patients with this disease will have elevation of
sodium and chloride in the sweat.  Three tests are used to assess
pancreatic function.  First is the measurement of stool trypsin and
chymotrypsin.  Second, stimulation with hormones - the standard
secretin and CCK tests.  A third procedure tests carbohydrate
tolerance, an increasingly important test since an ever-growing
number of patients in late childhood and early adulthood with cystic
fibrosis are being found to have diabetes mellitus.  The commonest
and most important hereditary disease that affects pancreatic
function is cystic fibrosis.  The commonest form of pancreatic
insufficiency in childhood is mucoviscidosis or cystic fibrosis of
the pancreas.  The incidence of this disease is approximately one
per 1000 live births.  It occurs in all races, and the defect is
transmitted as an autosomal recessive.  The classic features are
frequent bowel movements with the characteristic appearance of
steatorrheic stools, and a failure to grow and develop normally.

