Mearns-M-B.

Inhalation therapy in cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dt.  RESPIRATORY-THERAPY.

ACETYLCYSTEINE: ad.  ALBUTEROL: ad.  ANTIBIOTICS: ad.  HUMAN.
PENICILLINS: ad.  SODIUM-CHLORIDE: ad.

Inhalation therapy can be divided into two types, intermittent
aerosol therapy which is used to administer medications over brief
periods and mist tent therapy which is used for prolonged periods of
treatment.  The present state of knowledge of the basic defect of
cystic fibrosis makes it impossible to give hard and fast guide lines
for the use of inhalation therapy.  Much depends on the individual
experience of the physician and the degree of pulmonary involvement
of the individual patient.  Response to bronchodilators can be
assessed relatively easily, assessment of mucolytics and antibiotics
is difficult.  Antibiotics can be useful in helping to clear
infection in those patients with early disease, as judged by clearing
of pathogens from the cough swab or sputum.  In patients with chronic
cough and large volumes if purulent sputum with positive culture from
gram negative bacteria, the cultures never become negative and only
in the occasional patient can definite clinical benefit be claimed.
A few severely ill patients have dramatically improved when this
therapy has been introduced, and the patients are convinced of the
benefit of this treatment.  It is of course impossible in this
disease, with such a varying clinical course, to prove scientifically
that the inhalation therapy was the reason for this improvement.

