Underwood-B-A.

The determination of vitamin A and some aspects of its distribution,
mobilization and transport in health and disease.

VITAMIN-A.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  BIOLOGICAL-TRANSPORT.  CARRIER-PROTEINS.
CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.  INFANT.
INFANT-NEWBORN.  LIVER: me.  LYMPH: me.  MALE.  MIDDLE-AGE.
PREGNANCY.  VITAMIN-A: me.  REVIEW.  SPECTROMETRY-FLUORESCENCE.
SPECTROPHOTOMETRY.  SPECTROPHOTOMETRY-ULTRAVIOLET.  VITAMIN-A: an, me.

The author has attempted to evaluate some of the methodology
currently in use or suggested for the routine determination of
vitamin A in blood and tissues.  Special consideration is given to
extraneous factors which can cause erroneous results in fluorometric
analyses.  A review of the older and current literature on the
distribution of vitamin A in tissues is presented.  Special
consideration is given to the uptake of vitamin A by the liver and
its storage in hepatocytes and Kupffer's cell and in subcellular
organelles.  Data on the concentration of vitamin A in the liver of
victims of accidental death and the effect of diseases of several
etiologies are presented.  The mechanism by which liver stores of
retinyl esters are mobilized and released to the plasma remains
obscure.  Considerable information has been gained recently on the
mechanism by which retinol is transported in blood.  Studies leading
to the isolation and characterization of retinol transport proteins
are summarized.  The metabolism of retinol binding protein in health
and in disease, especially in cystic fibrosis, is discussed.
Finally, some factors of importance to the interpretation of plasma
levels in terms of vitamin A are reviewed.  Special attention is
given to the effect on plasma levels of retinol and the retinol
transport proteins of periods of rapid growth (correlations with age)
and the influence of dietary adequacy on the distribution of plasma
levels of the vitamin.

