Alhadeff-J-A.

Glycoproteins and cystic fibrosis: a review.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  GLYCOPROTEINS: me.

CHILD.  COMPARATIVE-STUDY.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.  FUCOSE: me.
FUCOSIDASE: me.  GLYCOPROTEINS: ip.  HUMAN.  REVIEW.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

This article is a review of the major research of the last 20 years
on abnormal glycoproteins and abnormal glycoprotein metabolism in
cystic fibrosis.  Its purpose is to focus attention on an area
considered by the author to be of great importance for elucidating
the primary biochemical defect in CF.  The majority of the studies on
glycoproteins in CF have been done on crude mixtures of glycoproteins
from tissues or tissue fluids, secretions or excretions.  Very few
studies have compared the properties and composition of purified
glycoproteins from CF patients and controls.  Comparative studies on
the enzymes involved in the degradation and biosynthesis of the
carbohydrate portions of glycoproteins in CF patients and normal
controls are discussed.  Several studies have suggested abnormalities
in CF alpha-L-fucosidase and CF L-fucose metabolism.  There are
several studies which indirectly suggest that abnormalities in
glycoproteins or their metabolism may be involved in the pathogenesis
of cystic fibrosis.  Fruitful areas for future investigation are
comparison of the properties and composition of specific
glycoproteins purified to homogeneity from CF and control tissues,
particularly with regard to carbohydrate composition; comparison of
the activities and properties of the enzymes involved in both the
degradation and biosynthesis of glycoproteins in CF and control
tissues; and studies of the effects of increased electrolyte
concentration on the physical-chemical properties of glycoproteins.

