Taussig-L-M.  Wolf-R-O.  Woods-R-E.  Deckelbaum-R-J.

Use of serum amylase isoenzymes in evaluation of pancreatic function.

AMYLASES: bl.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.  ISOENZYMES: bl.  PANCREAS:  en.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  AMYLASES: ur.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
DUODENUM: se.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.  INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.
INTESTINAL-SECRETIONS: en.  ISOENZYMES: ur.  MALE.  PANCREATIN: du.
SALIVA: en.

Amylase isoenzyme patterns were evaluated in serum, urine, and
duodenal fluid from 19 patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and normal
subjects.  Two thirds of the CF patients with absent pancreatic
enzymes lacked a serum pancreatic isoamylase band, while the
remainder had a markedly diminished pancreatic band when compared to
the salivary isoamylase.  In normal sera the pancreatic band is
equal to or greater than the salivary band.  In all patients with
absent enzymes the diagnosis of abnormal pancreatic function could
have been made by evaluation of serum isoamylase patterns thereby
avoiding duodenal intubation or collection of 72-hour stools for
proteolytic enzyme activities.  The patients with normal pancreatic
enzyme activities had normal serum zymograms.  No CF patient had a
low total serum amylase concentration.  Total duodenal fluid amylase
levels may be misleading in the evaluation of pancreatic function
since the amylase may be of salivary origin.  The advantages of this
isoamylase method include (1) simplicity and noninvasiveness,
requiring only a small blood sample; (2) specificity for pancreatic
function; and (3) independence of pancreatic enzyme medication.

