Bowman-B-H.  Barnett-D-R.

Recent advances in cystic fibrosis research.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  AGGLUTINATION.  BIOLOGICAL-TRANSPORT.  CHILD.
CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CHLORIDES: me.  CILIA: de.  COMPLEMENT-3: me.
COMPLEMENT: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl, di, me, oc, pa.
DEPRESSION-CHEMICAL.  HUMAN.  INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.  MUCUS: me.
PRENATAL-DIAGNOSIS.  RESEARCH.  REVIEW.  SODIUM: me.
STAINS-AND-STAINING.  SWEAT: me.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

Cystic fibrosis at one time was considered to be a lethal condition
with death occurring at birth or within the first year of life.  With
the advent of antibiotic therapy, pancreatic enzyme replacement,
extensive physical therapy and generally improved medical treatment,
many patients now survive to adulthood.  Clinical manifestations in
CF vary from patient to patient and may include pulmonary disease,
malnutrition, pancreatic insufficiency and defective ion transport.
The most reliable laboratory method for diagnosis of CF is testing
for elevated sweat electrolyte levels.  Estimates of the incidence of
CF vary from 1 in 2000 to 1 in 3500 among white populations of
mid-European heritage.  The disease is rare in black populations and
almost non-existent in Orientals.  Since 1967 there has been an
intensive search for a circulating factor or factors which may be
directly or indirectly responsible for the malfunctions manifest in
this disease.  Sweat factors, serum factors, metachromasia, bioassay
variations, and properties of the ciliary inhibitor are discussed.
Several groups working in CF research have centered their attention
on the serum complement system.  Agglutination and mucus factors,
transport studies, enzyme studies, and prenatal diagnosis are also
examined.

