Jaffe-B-F.

Chronic sinusitis in children.  Comments on pathogenesis and
management.

SINUSITIS.

ACUTE-DISEASE.  ADENOIDS.  ADOLESCENCE.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.
CHRONIC-DISEASE.  CLEFT-PALATE: co.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.
HAY-FEVER:  co.  HUMAN.  INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.  KARTAGENER-TRIAD.
LYMPHATIC-DISEASES: co.  NASAL-POLYPS: et.  PARANASAL-SINUSES: ra.
PHYSICAL-EXAMINATION.  PRESSURE: ae.  SINUSITIS: et, co, di, dt, su.
VASOCONSTRICTOR-AGENTS-NASAL: tu.

Chronic sinusitis in young children does not often invoke "sinus"
complaints of fullness, discomfort, or pain over the affected sinus,
for it is only the older child who verbalizes these complaints.
Rather, it is the secondary signs and symptoms that lead the
physician to suspect this entity in children.  The most common of
these are chronic nasal discharge and chronic nasal obstruction.  A
careful nasal examination is essential for the recognition of chronic
sinusitis, the most common predecessor of chronic sinusitis.
Allergic rhinitis is probably the second most common background of
acute and then chronic sinusitis.  Chronic sinusitis in children with
cystic fibrosis is a characteristic finding.  Sinusitis is common in
cleft lip and cleft palate children.  Infants and children with
clinical signs of chronic infection and radiographic changes should
have a nose culture and sensitivity studies to plan appropriate
antibiotic therapy.  Surgical therapy is indicated when the symptoms,
such as chronic pain, chronic otitis media, chronic bronchitis,
orbital infections, or intracranial complications, occur.

