Rosenlund-M-L.  Kim-H-K.  Kritchevsky-D.

Essential fatty acids in cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  FATTY-ACIDS-ESSENTIAL: bl.

CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CHROMATOGRAPHY-THIN-LAYER.
CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  FATTY-ACIDS-ESSENTIAL: df.  HUMAN.

The nature of the metabolic defect in cystic fibrosis (CF) has, to
date, not been elucidated.  Elliott reported that intravenous
administration of soybean oil and lecithin to children suffering
from CF caused their sweat sodium concentration to decrease towards
normal values.  This prompted us to investigate the fatty acid
spectra of the various serum lipid classes of children with CF.  We
have found that affected children are deficient in essential fatty
acids.  The data suggest another approach to the study of the
metabolic defect in cystic fibrosis.  There is an apparent
deficiency in essential fatty acids, and a marked reduction in
serum vitamin E levels has also been reported in CF.  These
conditions might be partially corrected by intravenous injection,
or possibly feeding of, lipids containing essential fatty acids
with concomitant administration of vitamin E.  The observed
deficiency in essential fatty acids may be produced by a reduced
ability to absorb these acids from the diet and this, in turn, may
result in defects in membrane structure or stability.  Reduced
levels of vitamin E in CF may reflect a reduced requirement for
this vitamin because of the lower levels of essential fatty acids.
It is also possible that the observed deficiency in serum levels of
essential fatty acids may lead to less than normal production of
prostaglandins.

