di-SantAgnese-P-A.  Davis-P-B.

Research in cystic fibrosis (second of three parts).

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.

ANIMAL.  BIOLOGICAL-TRANSPORT.  CELL-MEMBRANE: me.  CHLORIDES: me.
CILIA: ph.  COMPLEMENT-3.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl, pa.  FEMALE.
GLYCOSAMINOGLYCANS: me.  HUMAN.  IGG: me.  LYSOSOMES: en.  MALE.
METHYLATION.  POLYAMINES: bl.  PROTEIN-BINDING.  REVIEW.  RNA: me.
SALIVA: an.  SODIUM: me.  SUBCELLULAR-FRACTIONS: en.
SWEAT-GLANDS:  me.  TISSUE-CULTURE.  TOXINS: ip.

Tissue-culture studies involving metachromasia, glycosaminoglycans,
RNA methylation, cell membranes, and ciliatoxic activity in medium
are described.  Although not fulfilling the hopes of a quick route to
discovery of the basic defect in this disease that were raised by the
first findings, the study of fibroblasts in cystic fibrosis has given
important information.  The evidence at present indicates that
lysosomes and probably other intracellular organelles are normal in
morphology and function in cystic fibrosis.  Several humoral
abnormalities have been found in cystic fibrosis: those that
influence ciliary activity in experimental models; those that affect
membrane transport; and the abnormality in polyamine distribution.
A number of abnormal humoral factors have been found in cystic
fibrosis.  The limitations in their interpretation are serious: the
assays used to delineate these abnormalities are often not
universally reproducible, some because of their inherent variability
and others because they are technically forbidding.  Therefore,
unified definition of the so-called "cystic fibrosis factors" is not
possible at present.

