Wright-R-K.  Buehler-B-A.  Schott-S-N.  Rennert-O-M.

Spermine and spermidine, modulators of the cell surface enzyme
adenylate cyclase.

ADENYL-CYCLASE: ai.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: en.  SPERMIDINE: pd.
SPERMINE: pd.

ADULT.  CELL-MEMBRANE: de, en.  CELLS-CULTURED.  CHILD.
CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  COMPARATIVE-STUDY.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pa.
FIBROBLASTS: de.  HUMAN.  IN-VITRO.  INFANT-NEWBORN.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

Adenylate cyclase activity was measured in membrane preparations of
cultured fibroblasts from controls and patients with cystic fibrosis.
Enzyme activity increased as the transition from exponential growth
to confluence occurred; sodium fluoride-stimulated activity more
markedly displayed this relationship than basal cyclase activity. The
in vitro addition of spermine (1 X 10(-6) to 2 X 10(-3) M) to
membrane preparations caused inhibition of basal and sodium fluoride-
stimulated enzyme activity, with 50% inhibition of basal activity
occurring at 10(-6) M spermine. Spermidine (10(-4) M) caused 15--25%
inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity. The increase in fibroblast
adenylate cyclase activity during the transition from exponential
growth was comparable in cells obtained from cystic fibrosis patients
and control subjects. Basal and sodium-fluoride stimulated adenylate
cyclase activity as well as inhibition of this enzyme activity by
spermidine and spermine were undistinguishable between the different
cell genotypes. A potential modulation of cellular proliferative
activity through polyamine interaction with the adenylate cyclase
system is postulated.

