Kaiser-D.  Sidiropoulos-D.  Kehrli-P.  Rennert-O-M.

Studies of alpha1-antitrypsin in amniotic fluid, meconium and cord
serum of a homozygote newborn infant.  pp.  107-22.

ALPHA-1-ANTITRYPSIN: df.  AMNIOTIC-FLUID: me.  FETAL-BLOOD: me.
INFANT-NEWBORN-DISEASES: fg.  MECONIUM: me.

ADULT.  ALPHA-1-ANTITRYPSIN: me.  CASE-REPORT.  CHILD.
COMPARATIVE-STUDY.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.  FEMALE.  HETEROZYGOTE.
HOMOZYGOTE.  HUMAN.  INFANT.  INFANT-NEWBORN.  MASS-SCREENING.
MONOGRAPH.  PREGNANCY.

Cord serum, amniotic fluid and meconium of a newborn from a
heterozygote (PiZZ) mother were investigated.  In the newborn infant
the diagnosis of homozygote (PiZZ) deficiency of alpha1-antitrypsin
could be established in cord serum at the time of delivery.  Trypsin
inhibitory capacity (TIC) and alpha1-antitrypsin (AT) in cord serum
were in the range of adult homozygotes.  By means of crossed
immunoelectrophoresis exclusively, the phenotypic alleles ZZ were
demonstrable.  This excludes the possibility of materno-fetal
transfer of alpha1-antitrypsin.  In infant amniotic fluid extremely
low antiprotease-activity and substantially no alpha1-antitrypsin was
found, whereas in normal samples the TIC is 3% to 6% of the cord
serum values and the AT 1.2% to 4% of cord serum concentration.  Our
data suggest that a major component of TIC and AT in normal amniotic
fluid derive from the fetus.  In normal meconium we detected TIC and
AT in concentrations increasing proportionally to the total protein
content.  The inhibitory capacity of AT in meconium expressed in mg
trypsin inhibited per mg alpha1-antitrypsin however is 80% less than
serum alpha1-antitrypsin.  No correlation exists with the free
tryptic activity of meconium.  The AT of an PiZZ infant is clearly
diminished when referred to fresh weight, whereas meconia from three
cystic fibrosis newborns screened by the BM test had extremely high
concentrations.  Estimation of TIC and AT in meconium is regarded as
a useful approach for screening on homozygote alpha1-antitrypsin
deficiency.  The exact diagnosis however can only be established by
phenotyping the alleles.  In cystic fibrosis the high protein content
of meconium is accompanied by increased alpha1-antitrypsin levels.

